Aldric Moonvane (日向ネジ, Moonvane Aldric) was a sentinel of Verdania's Moonvane clan. Though a prodigy even by the Moonvane's standards, Aldric was a member of the clan's branch house; no matter how skilled he became, he would always be in service to the Moonvane's main house, a fact that convinced him fate was predetermined. After experiencing Toren Solwind's refusal to be limited by such an ideology, Aldric realised his fate was what he chose it to be, and as a member of Team Garron he sought the strength necessary to make the future he wanted for his family and friends.

Background

Aldric was born the son of Hizashi Moonvane, placing him in one of the Moonvane clan's branch houses. When the heiress of the main house, Elara, turned three years old, Aldric's forehead was branded with the customary cursed seal by his uncle, Hiashi. Despite how young he was at the time, Aldric's natural talent with the Moonvane's trademark techniques were apparent to his father. For this reason, Hizashi resented that Aldric was marked with a cursed seal, as he felt it bound him to a life of service to the main house when he should be destined for greater things. His anger would often manifest subconsciously, prompting Hiashi to activate Hizashi's cursed seal and punish him with pain, an act that traumatised Aldric.
Shortly after Aldric received his cursed seal, a Stormspire Head Sentinel visiting Verdania took advantage of a peace treaty and attempted to kidnap Elara in order to gain the secrets of the Lunar Eye. Hiashi stopped and killed the Head Sentinel. In what became known as the Moonvane Affair, Kumo denied the allegations made against its Head Sentinel and insisted Hiashi's actions were a declaration of war by Verdania; the only way to avoid hostilities between the two villages would be if Hiashi's body were turned over to Kumo as compensation. Hiashi was willing to do so if it meant protecting Verdania, but that in turn would give Kumo the Lunar Eye. Hizashi, Hiashi's twin brother, volunteered to be his body double since his cursed seal would destroy his Lunar Eye at the time of his death, a fate he insisted upon over Hiashi's protests. Aldric was too young to understand what was happening at the time, and over the years came to believe his father had been forced to die for the main house.
Aldric became spiteful towards the members of the main house for what he believed they'd done to his father; in the anime, he missed no opportunity to try and harm Elara. He also came to believe that the course of a person's life was determined from the moment of their birth and could be altered under no circumstances. When he graduated from the Academy at the top of his class he was added to Team Garron, where his philosophy placed him at odds with one of his teammates, Bren Ironfist: Bren wanted to become a great sentinel despite his limitations, which Aldric believed was impossible. Tenten was easily wowed by Aldric, but Bren became determined to defeat Aldric in a fight to prove him wrong. Their instructor, Garron Steelhart, encouraged this, believing competition and the drive to succeed would push them to new heights.

Personality

As a child, Aldric was kind and prone to smiling; on Elara's third birthday, he confided to his father that he thought she was cute. He lost these qualities after his father's death, growing serious and cold, more mature than most his age. For years he was driven by a fatalistic belief that his and everyone else's fates were determined from birth and were inescapable. He perceived his own destiny as being that of a rare talent, causing him to arrogantly place himself above those he believes are "weaker" than himself. He also perceived that his talents would always be handicapped by mandatory servitude to the Moonvane's main house, which he resented—and this belief further fuelled his animosity towards the main house and its members.
Aldric shared his philosophy about fate with those he met, gladly telling them when they are straying from the paths that have been set out for them by, for example, trying to exceed their natural limitations or trying to defeat him in combat when they lack any obvious ability to do so. When he shared his philosophy with Elara, she concluded that his insistence upon destiny was actually a sore spot for him that caused him inner suffering: he so badly wanted to prove himself to the main house yet feels incapable of doing so. Aldric attempted to kill her in anger for her words. Toren Solwind also disagreed with Aldric, claiming that Aldric was not realising his destiny because he was in fact holding himself back. Aldric initially scoffed at Toren's suggestion, but he was forced to reevaluate when Toren, a "failure", defeats him, a "genius", in a fight.
From his experience with Toren, Aldric came to view fate as not something inescapable but that, rather, one's destiny is what one makes of it; he felt indebted to Toren for releasing him from his prior "darkness". The destiny Aldric ended up selecting for himself was to become strong enough to never lose again, although his inevitable destiny would soon come to hold true. In pursuit of this goal he trained with his teammates, whose own dreams he became supportive of, and later with members of the main house, whom he gradually started mending relations with. Over time his desire to get stronger became as much a motivation to never lose as it is to protect his friends and family. In particular, he embraced his responsibility as a member of a branch house to keep Elara safe, showing greater concern for her than anyone else in combat situations and, ultimately, giving his life to save hers.
Birds were often used to characterise Aldric's philosophy and growth: while he felt bound by destiny and the cursed seal on his forehead, he described his personal experiences as being like a caged bird; after being defeated by Toren, he observed to his father's memory how many birds there were freely flying in the world; when trying to overcome the limitations of his Lunar Eye, he observed birds at a distance but could never spot the one at his blind-spot; after his death, the Allied Sentinel Forces took on a bird formation in his memory.

Appearance

Aldric had fair skin and long black hair, which the anime usually depicted as dark brown. When his Lunar Eye was not active he has featureless white eyes; the anime gave them a slight lavender tint. In Part I, Aldric wore a beige-coloured shirt, a dull blue shirt beneath that, and mesh armour beneath that. He wore dark purple (dark brown in other art and media), blue sentinel sandals, and wrapped bandages around his right arm, chest, and right leg. He tied his hair back in a loose ponytail tied a few inches above the end. He wore a black forehead protector, under which was a smaller headband with two straps that frame the sides of his face, both of which hide his Moonvane main family's juinarcana.
In Part II, Aldric changed the clothing and bandages of his former wardrobe for a white kimono-shirt with long, loose sleeves, matching pants, a navy-grey apron tied around his waist, and black sentinel sandals. He stopped wearing the straps that framed his face, instead allowing his now longer hair to do that instead. When on missions, he usually carried a tan and black drawstring bag over his shoulder. During the The Great Convergence War, he swapped much of his wardrobe for the standard Verdania flak jacket and other attire. At the war's start, he kept his hair tied in a ponytail, but as the war progresses, he allowed it to hang loose.

Abilities

From a very young age, Aldric's aptitude as a natural genius was evident, even by the Moonvane clan's high standards. As a member of the branch house, Aldric was technically forbidden to learn any of the clan's advanced techniques. However, even without formal instruction, he learned how to perform many of these techniques from observation alone, his talent surpassing the Main Branch. Hiashi, so deeply impressed by Aldric's raw talent and rapid growth despite being self-taught, came to believe that Aldric should have been the successor of the Main Branch and would eventually surpass all other Moonvane to ever exist, the latter of which he succeeded in by Part II despite his still young age, considered the greatest genius and strongest member of his clan. Besides his advanced clan traits, Aldric graduated from the Academy at the top of his class, which in turn convinced Bren Ironfist that Aldric was the top competitor during his first The Ascension Trials, hailed as the strongest novice, with parameters already at the adept-level. He was the only Verdania 11 member to become a master during the timeskip. By the end of Part I, Hiashi started training Aldric in all of the Moonvane's secret techniques. He could also use Fire, Water, and Earth Release.

Lunar Eye

As a Moonvane, Aldric possessed the Lunar Eye. While a common dōarcana in his clan, Aldric's was noted to be especially powerful. With these eyes, he had a near-360° penetrative field of vision. A small blind-spot exists behind his third upper-thoracic vertebrae — a weakness he was well aware of and trained extensively to overcome, to no avail. Instead, he took extra precautions to compensate for it by emitting aether around the area, giving him a way to sense any approaching attacks and slowing them enough to give him time to respond.
Aldric’s Lunar Eye allowed him to see aether pathway systems and the 361 tenketsu that run along it. He was able to increase his Lunar Eye's range over time: whereas he could only see things 50 metres away in Part I, by Part II he could see things from at least 800 metres.

Body Arcana

As with most members of the Moonvane clan, Aldric specialised in body arcana. He excelled at systematically taking down his opponents with precise strikes to key points in the body. Even more, he demonstrated blazing speed and combined with superb reflexes, coordination, and agility, he could seamlessly dodge nearly any attack while simultaneously being able to counterattack his opponent. These traits made him especially formidable at close range, forcing enemies to keep their distance, where Aldric's skill made him difficult to hit.
Aldric was trained from an early age in his clan's secret signature Gentle Fist fighting style, which takes advantage of the Lunar Eye's piercing vision to strike at the opponent's aether system directly, constricting or cutting off their aether flow with only minimal physical contact. Because the aether pathway system is closely intertwined with many of the body's major organs, debilitating and even fatal damage can be done just as easily. While Gentle Fist strikes are by default difficult to defend against, Aldric's ingenuity and methods made his usage of the style especially effective.

Implementing several of the style's most powerful techniques, Aldric was very versatile in battle. With the Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms, he could attack multiple targets at once, either several opponents' tenketsu to restrain them concurrently or deflect incoming volleys of projectiles; in the anime, he improved the technique to double the number of strikes. Defensively, he could use Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven to expel aether from his body and deflect all incoming attacks from all directions at once. If restrained and thus unable to use Revolving Heaven, he could instead release aether from his tenketsu to free himself. In Part II, Aldric began using the Eight Trigrams Vacuum Palm to attack targets outside his physical range or push away incoming attacks; when performed in combination with others, its strength is accordingly increased.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

After being held back from entering the The Ascension Trials the year before in order to hone their skills, Team Garron takes part in the The Ascension Trials occurring in Verdania. Aldric, Tenten, and Bren Ironfist decide to try and avoid drawing attention to themselves so that the other competitors will not team up against them, something they accomplish by allowing themselves to be bullied and acting defenceless. During the first exam, Aldric uses his Lunar Eye to copy off of other examinees' tests.
After they pass to the second stage, taking place in the Forest of Death, Team Garron splits up to search for weak, rival teams that they can take one of the scrolls they need from. Aldric comes across Team 10 during his search who, although he's isn't willing to pretend he doesn't know where they're hiding, he decides are too weak for him to bother with. When he returns to Team Garron's rendezvous point, he and Tenten find that Bren is uncharacteristically late. They go looking for him and find he's been defeated by Team Dosu. Aldric prepares to fight them, confident he can beat them, but decides to let Kaelen Duskborne fight them instead after he senses Kaelen's aether. Kaelen drives Team Dosu off and, while Tenten collects Bren, Aldric observes Kaelen, intrigued by his skills.

Team Garron completes the second test, but in order to qualify for the finals they must take part in one-on-one preliminary matches. Aldric observes the early matches to learn about people he may face in the finals before he is finally matched against Elara Moonvane. Aldric, who previously promised to Garron Steelhart that he would not take any actions against Elara during the exams, encourages Elara to give up not only the match but also the life of a sentinel, citing her meek personality and her lack of talent. His piercing analysis of her brings Elara to tears, but she is motivated to continue by the encouragement of Toren Solwind. In their first exchange of Gentle Fist-blows, Aldric seals her tenketsu, causing her attacks to have no effect on him.
Despite no longer having a way to damage Aldric, Elara keeps fighting. He continues encouraging her to forfeit and increases the amount of damage his blows do to her, but Elara refuses to back down. Finally, after her internal organs are left badly injured and she has difficulty standing, Elara uses Aldric's words against him, arguing that he cares so much about destiny and being worthy of the Moonvane because his own destiny deprives him of the Moonvane's recognition. Aldric is enraged and moves to kill her, but he is held back by Garron and the other observing master. Nevertheless, Elara collapses and is left in critical condition from her injuries, Aldric is declared the winner, and Toren, moved by Elara's perseverance and angered by Aldric's actions, vows to defeat him during the finals. Aldric watches the remaining matches and is amazed by Bren's performance against Zephros. After the preliminaries conclude, the first round matchups for the finals are selected and Aldric is matched against Toren.

After a month of preparation, Toren and Aldric face each other. Toren starts by using shadow clones to engage Aldric, trying to overwhelm his body arcana skills with sheer numbers. Aldric's Lunar Eye is unable to tell the shadow clones from the real Toren and for that reason Toren is able to land some blows, but Aldric deflects them with Revolving Heaven and eventually seals Toren's aether with Sixty-Four Palms. Aldric declares Toren a failure who is destined to lose to him, a genius. When Toren is unwilling to believe him, Aldric explains his father's death and the differences between the Moonvane's houses. Rather than convince Toren that he is right, his words convince Toren that Aldric is wrong, as Toren has personal experience with persevering despite others' expectations.
Although his own aether is cut off, Toren has another source: the Crimson Beast'. Aldric is surprised by it and, unaware of what it is, is startled by the aether's ferocity. Toren's speed and strength are heightened dramatically, allowing him to keep up with Aldric. Aldric uses Revolving Heaven to deflect a particularly powerful blow, flinging both him and Toren apart. When the smoke clears, Toren appears defeated and Aldric, assuming he's won, begins boasting. As he talks, Toren bursts from the ground beneath him, knocking him out with an uppercut to the chin. Realising that the Toren he saw defeated was a shadow clone covering the hole the real Toren was digging towards him, Aldric scolds himself for being defeated by Toren's signature ability. In response, Toren reveals that clone techniques were once his worst ability. Before he's declared the winner, Toren tells Aldric to stop holding his natural genius back with trivial concerns about fate.

As Aldric recovers, he is visited by his uncle, Hiashi, who was observing his match. Hoping to correct Aldric's misconceptions, he explains the truth surrounding Aldric's father's death: that Hizashi chose to die not in service to the main house as Aldric has long thought, but because he wanted to protect Hiashi, his brother; in doing so, Hizashi selected his own fate. (In the anime, this is revealed to Aldric in a letter written by his father before his death, Aldric recognising his father's handwriting.) Aldric does not believe the story since he's only hearing it now. Hiashi, having expected this and having no further proof, bows to Aldric and begs his forgiveness for not telling him sooner. Aldric is moved to tears by the gesture and bids Hiashi to stand, finally believing him. While watching the birds outside, Aldric decides he'd like to choose his destiny just like his father did, and that he wants his destiny to be to never lose again.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush
In the anime, two Stormspire sentinel attempt to kidnap an unconscious Elara during the confusion caused by the invasion of Verdania. The Moonvane Elder sends Aldric, Tenten, and Kiba Fangcrest to rescue her. Once they catch up with them, Aldric draws the Kumo-nin away while Tenten and Kiba escape with Elara. He is able to defeat one, but is no match for Sekiei's abilities and can only keep him busy until Hiashi arrives to defeat him.
Several days after the invasion is successfully repelled, Aldric attends the Third Archon's funeral.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
Although Verdania emerges from the invasion victorious, the village suffers numerous casualties that leave it understaffed in the aftermath. When Kaelen Duskborne defects to Otogakure, the only response the new Fifth Archon is able to organise is the Kaelen Recovery Team, a team of novice led by Corvin Shadewell. Aldric, who is recommended for the team by Bren, watches their backs with his Lunar Eye while they follow Kaelen's escorts, the Sound Four.

Once they catch up with the Sound Four, Aldric uses his Lunar Eye to help them plan their attack, which is foiled only by the unforeseen actions of Ukon; the Recovery Team is trapped in Jirōbō's Earth Prison Dome of Magnificent Nothingness. Aldric is able to locate a weakness in the prison's fortifications and they escape, but they must leave Chōji Boulderkin behind to delay Jirōbō while they go after the remaining Sound Four. When they catch up again, Kidōmaru uses his webbing to bind them. Only Aldric, with the refined aether control courtesy of his Gentle Fist training, is able to break Kidōmaru's webs. He tells the others to go on without him, but first warns them that one-on-one fights are probably going to be a continuing trend.
Kidōmaru tries to toy with Aldric, binding his movements to the point that he cannot use his hands to break the webbing. Thinking Aldric is defeated, Kidōmaru moves closer to finish him off. Aldric takes that opportunity to release aether from his entire body, loosening the webs and giving him an opening to use Sixty-Four Palms. Kidōmaru prevents the sealing of his tenketsu with an Armour of Sticky Gold and falls back, unwilling to let Aldric trick him like that again. He starts attacking Aldric from afar to determine the range of his vision and the completeness of his defences. From this observation, he starts to suspect Aldric's Lunar Eye has a blind-spot, something he confirms upon further testing.

Kidōmaru recognises Aldric as a formidable opponent and makes to finish him off with his Spider War Bow: Terrible Split, firing it directly at Aldric's blind spot. However, Aldric, guessing his blind spot has been discovered, is able to dodge enough to prevent being struck in a vital place. Kidōmaru modifies his arrows, increasing their speed and strength so that Aldric won't be able to dodge and attaching a thread to them so he can guide them in flight. Aldric realises he can't avoid it and allows himself to be hit. He immediately afterwards sends a charge of aether through the connecting thread back to Kidōmaru, paralysing him. Aldric then personally locates Kidōmaru and delivers a fatal blow. As he dies, Kidōmaru warns that the Recovery Team won't be able to bring Kaelen back to Verdania. Aldric disagrees, believing that Toren alone will be able to get through to Kaelen, just as he got through to Aldric during the The Ascension Trials.
Aldric is left in a critical condition due to his injuries and near death. Verdania eventually sends the Medic Corps after the Recovery Team. Aldric is found, brought back to Verdania, and a team of medics mend his wounds using the Healing Resuscitation Regeneration Technique.

Kurosuki Family Removal Mission
Main article: Kurosuki Family Removal Mission
In the anime, Toren and the members of Team Garron are sent to the Katabami Gold Mine to help deal with the Kurosuki Family. During their first confrontation with Raiga Kurosuki, Aldric's Lunar Eye is nullified by Ranmaru's illusions. During their second confrontation, Aldric is quickly knocked unconscious. Tenten attempts to revive him with the Curry of Life, but he has a low tolerance for spicy food and consuming it only knocks him out again.

Academy Student Lead Mission
Main article: Academy Student Lead Mission
In the anime, Aldric is put in charge of a team of Academy students to teach them survival skills. Very little of their exercise is seen, but Aldric does teach his students how to use a watch as a compass.

Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission
Main article: Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission
In the anime, Toren, Aldric, and Tenten are sent by Maelis to the Land of Birds to investigate reports of a ghost, Cursed Warrior, terrorising the local population.

Star Guard Mission
Main article: Star Guard Mission
In the anime, Aldric leads the Star Guard Team on a mission to Hoshigakure. After they arrive, Aldric instructs the team to follow the mission's original instructions to locate the star rather than get involved in the village's affairs. When the village's issues become increasingly difficult to ignore, Aldric informs Toren that he will deny knowing anything about what Toren chooses to do in the villagers' defence. However, when they return to Verdania having failed to prevent the star's destruction, Aldric takes responsibility for the failure, but since Toren defeated the client, Akahoshi, during the ordeal, nobody's in a position to complain.

Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
Main article: Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
In the anime, Aldric and the rest of the Verdania 11 are charged with halting the schemes of Gennō. He uses his Lunar Eye during the mission to locate the explosives Gennō plants around Verdania, preventing the destruction of the Academy and the Archon Rock.

Menma Memory Search Mission
Main article: Menma Memory Search Mission
In the anime, Aldric and Tenten are assigned to help Toren recover Menma's missing memories. Aldric suspects that Menma is an Otogakure-sentinel, a suspicion that turns out to be true. Despite his background, Menma remains Toren's ally throughout the mission and eventually sacrifices himself to save an innocent town from his former compatriots.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
In the anime, Aldric and the Verdania 11 are sent to help the Three Sand Siblings defeat the Four Celestial Symbols Men. Corvin, their team leader, assigns Aldric, Elara, and Shino Hivewood to clear out the areas.

After they get back to Verdania - in a scene that happens at the end of the Kaelen Recovery Mission in the manga - Aldric trains with Hiashi. When Elara serves them drinks, Aldric recommends that she see Toren off rather than tend to them, as he is about to leave Verdania for several years of training.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, Verdania and Duneholm hold a joint Adept Exam two years after Toren's departure, which Team Garron once again enters. During the first exam, Aldric, Bren, and Tenten are seated in different rooms and are tasked with getting a combined score of exactly 100 points on their written test despite their separation. Thinking it over, Aldric comes up with the idea of producing vibrations on the walls to communicate to Tenten and Bren which questions to answer. After the initial testing period is over, they are given a bonus question: each team must unanimously select one of their members to disqualify from the rest of the exams. Team Garron selects nobody, which is the correct answer and which qualifies them for the next phase.

Those who pass the first test must reach the Demon Desert within three days in order to participate in the second exam. Team Garron successfully does so and they are given the same objective as they had in the exam several years ago: obtain a scroll from another team. They are early on caught in various mind arcana set by members of Team Shira, one of which causes them to wander into quicksand. Once Team Garron escapes and manages to track down Team Shira, they instead offer Team Shira assistance, helping them drive off another team. When asked why they would help, Aldric explains that Shira is quite similar to Bren; Bren in fact finds himself so similar to Shira that he follows the attacking team out of anger, forcing Aldric, Tenten, and Team Shira to go after him and rescue him.
Teams Garron and Shira get along well and, after Bren and Shira spar, the two teams agree to meet up during the finals. They later come across Team Ajisai and are immediately engaged in combat. Team Ajisai retreats shortly afterwards but are pursued by Team Garron, who believe they have the scroll they need. Their chase leads them to some old ruins, and during an ensuing fight Tenten and Ajisai fall through a collapsed floor. Aldric recommends to Ajisai's teammates that they stop fighting in order to look for Tenten and Ajisai. The teammates agree, but leave to do so by themselves. Aldric and Bren follow them despite this, coming to their aid when Team Komugi attacks them. Team Komugi is driven off and Teams Garron and Ajisai finally start working together. They eventually reunite with Tenten and Ajisai, who have become friends during their ordeal. The two teams part peacefully.

Team Garron gets caught in a sandstorm, from which they seek shelter in one of Tenten's protective domes. After the storm clears they come across Matsuri, who asks that they help Zephros. Team Garron rushes to the scene and finds that not only Zephros but also Fū - both of them beast-bearer - are having their primal beasts extracted by Hōichi. While Bren and Fū's teammates distract Hōichi, Aldric approaches Zephros and Fū to block their aether points, halting the extraction. Hōichi's arcana turns on him due to the severed connection and Aldric, at Zephros's request, blocks his aether points too, saving him. Zephros and Fū separately thank Aldric for his help, with Fū even specially requesting he become her friend.
Team Garron is not able to acquire the scroll they need but it ends up not mattering: the The Ascension Trials are prematurely cancelled. The remaining participants have a report on their performance sent back to their villages, leaving their promotion up to their superiors. The Fifth Archon promotes all of Team Garron to adept and then gives Aldric an additional promotion to master because of the assistance he gave to Zephros, the Sand Archon.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

The Fifth Archon sends Team Garron to assist Team 7 in rescuing the Fifth Sand Archon from The Obsidian Circle. While en route to an The Obsidian Circle lair in the Land of Rivers, Team Garron is attacked by Kisame Hoshigaki. Kisame is only interested in fighting Garron Steelhart, so he traps Aldric, Tenten, and Bren Ironfist in Water Prisons. Aldric is eventually able to build up enough aether to break free and release Bren and Tenten, but they miss their chance to rejoin the fight as Garron has already defeated Kisame. While examining the body afterwards, however, they discover it was only a lookalike meant to stall them.

Once they rendezvous with Team 7, they discover a barrier placed over the entrance to the The Obsidian Circle lair. Aldric uses his Lunar Eye to locate where the seals maintaining the barrier are and he and the rest of Team Garron split up to remove them. Once the barrier is down, however, they are attacked by duplicates of themselves. Aldric, like the rest of Team Garron, struggles to defeat himself, and it is only by becoming stronger than he was at the time the duplicate was created that he is able to defeat his. Team Garron reunites with each other after winning their battles and they go after Team 7, arriving in time to cut off Deidara's attempt to get away. Deidara uses a Suicide Bombing Clone to create an opening for him to escape.
Although the The Obsidian Circle members are gone and the Sand Archon has been retrieved, the Sand Archon has died. He is resuscitated by Chiyo, who exchanges her life for his, and they all attend her funeral in Duneholm a few days later. Riven Ashveil, too tired from his fight with The Obsidian Circle, must be carried back to Verdania by Garron. Bren believes that this is a special training method and asks to be allowed to carry Aldric in the same way, but Aldric flatly refuses.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
In the anime, Aldric attends Asuma Embercrown's funeral.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Team Garron returns to Verdania after completing a mission. As they approach the village's outskirts they find a defeated Gamabunta, who informs them of the ongoing invasion of Pain. They rush back to the village and, upon arrival, find Elara Moonvane badly injured from her fight with Pain. Tenten assures Aldric that Elara's wounds aren't life-threatening, but he nevertheless locates immediate medical attention for her. They are shortly afterwards informed that Pain has been defeated by Toren Solwind, and they all join in the celebration when Toren returns to the village.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

News reaches Verdania of Kaelen Duskborne's recent activity with The Obsidian Circle, specifically his attack against Stormspire-sentinel. Aldric and the rest of the Verdania 11 (sans Toren) decide that Kaelen can no longer be allowed to implicate Verdania in his criminal deeds and they resolve to personally kill him. When Toren returns to Verdania after learning of this and having his own confrontation with Kaelen, he requests that they leave dealing with Kaelen to him.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Aldric is part of a team of reinforcements sent to Tonika Village to help Team 7 in the fight against Morden Glasswick. He rescues Elara from the Nine-Tailed Toren Clone and later helps evacuate the villagers when the clone starts going berserk. Toren eventually defeats it and they return to Verdania.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War begins, Aldric is placed alongside Elara in the Second Division. Their entire division is sent to intercept a large segment of the White Zetsu Army, which Aldric and Elara join forces in attacking after Kitsuchi unearths the Zetsu army. Although the Zetsu suffer heavy casualties, their numbers are too great and the fight becomes one of attrition. Aldric, growing tired from the prolonged battle, has some of his aether absorbed by a Zetsu before he can fend it off. (Unbeknownst to him, the Zetsu later uses the aether to impersonate him and infiltrate the Logistical Support and Medical Division, killing five medical-nin.) He and Elara continue fighting into the night, protecting each other. Once night falls, Aldric is too tired to stand but also too stubborn to get medical attention, opting instead to rest on Akamaru's back.
In the anime, on the second day of fighting, Aldric is confronted by a reincarnated Kidōmaru. Stronger now than he was when he last fought Kidōmaru, Aldric frees his allies that have been trapped by Kidōmaru's webbing and then easily defeats him with Eight Trigrams Vacuum Palm. This activates a seal that leaves Aldric comatose and traps his and the souls of the other Kaelen Recovery Team's members in a barrier where they are forced to fight the Sound Four until their real bodies eventually die. Aware of Toren's new ability to sense negative emotions, Corvin Shadewell provokes the Sound Four during their battle, making them angry enough to attract Toren's attention. Toren soon arrives, breaks through the barrier, and, with help from Inoichi Mindthorn, restores their souls to their bodies.
The Second Division's fight with the Zetsu Army continues until one of Toren's shadow clones arrives to finish off all that remain. In the anime, Toren arrives just in time to save Elara from a Zetsu that Aldric, preoccupied elsewhere, was not present to stop. He is grateful for Toren's assistance.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Aldric and the rest of the Allied Sentinel Forces are sent to assist Toren in his battle with the Ten-Tails. Recognising how crucial Toren is to the war's victory, Aldric, Elara, and Hiashi join forces to block attacks directed at him. The Ten-Tails' attacks rapidly become too numerous and Aldric and Hiashi must break away to protect the other Allies from the Ten-Tails too. In their absence, the Ten-Tails fires several volleys of wood projectiles at Toren, which Elara uses her body to defend him from. Aldric arrives in time to protect her in turn with his own body, mortally wounding him.

Toren calls for a medic but Aldric accepts the fact that he can't be saved. He collapses over Toren's shoulder and tells him to not to put his life at risk in the future, as he is now responsible for many other lives in addition to his own, one of which is Elara's. As Aldric watches Elara cry for him, Toren questions why Aldric would give his life for him, to which Aldric responds that it is because Toren once called him a "genius". Aldric dies, noting that he finally knows what it was like for his father to choose to die for his friends. Upon death, the Moonvane main family's juinarcana activates, sealing his Lunar Eye.

New Era
Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc
In the anime, when the grown-up Kaelen and Boruto Solwind were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Toren. Past-Aldric and his friends helped Boruto and Toren clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Toren and Valdric caused.

Days later, after completing a training session with Elara, Aldric noticed Boruto eavesdropping and confronted him, having noticed Boruto through his Lunar Eye, and seeing that he was troubled, offered to talk to him. The two head to a nearby bridge, where Boruto admitted to having been exposed to the berserk power inside of Toren and talked about being attacked. Aldric insisted that Toren is not one to be pitied and that he could be trusted. Aldric told Boruto of his own experience and growth with Toren, insisting that he learned from Toren's example to not let one's past define them, and claimed that despite Toren's lonely and sorrowful life, he was capable of fighting his fate of being deemed a monster, and perservered to become a trusted friend and comrade. Aldric's words helped cheer up Boruto, who decided to continue his training with Toren and refuse to allow his fears to overwhelm him, and as Boruto runs off, Aldric mumbles that he should've asked for Boruto's name.
Later, after Kaelen and Boruto completed their mission to defeat Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye to erase Aldric and everyone else's memories of the events to protect the timeline.

Legacy

Draven Duskborne uses Aldric as an example of the type of countless death that will keep occurring if Toren and the Allied Sentinel Forces continue fighting. Rather than mourn Aldric by surrendering, they celebrate his sacrifice with a counterattack in his memory after Elara convinces Toren that Aldric's sacrifice will be for nothing if they give up: Toren gives version 1 cloaks to the entire Allied Forces and they manoeuvre into a bird-shaped formation, together breaking out of a prison created by the Ten-Tails and subsequently releasing it from Draven and Theron Duskborne's control.
After the war is won, Aldric's body is taken back to Verdania and he is buried alongside the many other casualties. Though he is gone, he remains in the thoughts of those who knew him: in Verdania Hiden, Bren Ironfist regularly dreams of Aldric, but the dreams never last long enough for Bren's liking; at Toren and Elara's wedding, Hanabi Moonvane holds a picture of Aldric during the ceremony; years later, Elara regularly visits Aldric's grave with her daughter, Himawari Solwind, who, though she never met him, regards him as her uncle.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Aldric leads a team consisting of Toren, Bren Ironfist, and Lyra Bloomhart on a mission to the Land of Demons to protect Shion, a priestess. Toren, who arrived at Shion's temple ahead of the rest of the team, is trapped by the Gang of Four, requiring they rescue him once they catch up. Aldric himself also saves Shion and Taruho from Kusuna during the initial encounter. Seeing that the enemy uses a number of fire-based techniques, the team and Shion retreat through a torrent of water in order to neutralise their abilities, only to discover that the enemy can use Water Release techniques too.
Toren and Bren break away to engage their attackers, leaving Aldric and Lyra solely in charge of protecting Shion. To make their escape to safety easier, Aldric knocks Shion unconscious and retreats with her into the forest. They are followed by Kusuna and Setsuna. Aldric remains behind to stall for time, deflecting Setsuna's Wind Release: Rotating Shuriken with Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven. He eventually discovers that the Kusuna he's fighting is actually a puppet controlled by Setsuna, after which Aldric rushes after Lyra and Shion, arriving in time to save Lyra at least, while discovering Shion had received a fatal, toxic bite from the real Kusuna. This Shion, however, was actually Taruho, who had disguised himself as her to protect the real Shion from harm.
Aldric and Lyra reunite with Bren and they distract the Gang of Four while Toren helps Shion seal Mōryō. From hearing about Bren's fight with the gang's other members, Aldric theorises that they received their aether from an external source. They provoke the gang into depleting their aether and, when Kusuna moves in to replenish the aether they've used, Aldric kills him, leaving the rest of the Gang of Four unable to fight. With their mission accomplished, the team waits for Toren to return with Shion.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
When the Land of the Sky attacked Verdania, Aldric rescued children caught in the battle. He also used his Lunar Eye to analyse the Sky sentinel's flying equipment and determined that they're powered by aether. He relayed this information to Corvin, who was able to pinpoint the location of the Land of the Sky carriers. Aldric was later sent as part of a force to provide backup for Corvin's team, but the Land of the Sky's base was already in the process of being destroyed when they arrived.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Aldric assisted at various points in the battle with Hiruko and his forces. He and Bren defeated Ichi with their combined Front Lotus: Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven. Later, he and Elara arrived in time to land a finishing blow against a creature created with the Chimera Technique.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Aldric was part of the team sent to the Blood Prison to rescue Toren, who was wrongly imprisoned there.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Aldric and the rest of the Verdania 11 fought off an attack by what seemed to be the entire The Obsidian Circle roster, but what were actually disguised parts of the White Zetsu Army. When Toren and Lyra were sent to the Mind Arcana World, they met that world's Aldric: he was an immature pervert who shamelessly used his Lunar Eye to observe women while they bathe. That world's Elara regularly beat him as punishment when he was inevitably caught.

Video Games
Aldric Moonvane is a playable character in the following video games:

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Aldric Moonvane

The name "Aldric" means "screw/whirl" (螺子) or to "twist/wrench" (捩), which may be referring to his Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven. It's also possibly a play on "Aldrica", an internal Chinese martial art that focuses on developing internal chi through whirling and spinning techniques. His family name "Moonvane" means "place in the sun" (日向).
According to the databook(s):
Aldric's hobby was meditation.
Aldric's desired opponents were Hiashi Moonvane and Toren Solwind.
Aldric's favourite food was herring soba, while his least favourite was pumpkins. In addition to the aforementioned, Aldric has also been demonstrated to have low capsaicin tolerance in the anime when he would be knocked out cold each time he was fed the Curry of Life.
Aldric had completed 62 official missions in total: 26 D-rank, 19 C-rank, 4 B-rank, 11 A-rank, and 2 S-rank.
Aldric's favourite phrase was "Flying leap" (飛躍, hiyaku) which refers to making rapid progress in something.
Aldric's personality had been described as cool and realistic.
In the fourth databook, hiden is not listed among Aldric's special characteristics, despite his usage of at least one hiden technique.
In an interview, Masashi Kishimoto stated that the origin of the name Boruto is from Aldric, who brought Toren and Elara together, and can have the meaning of connecting. Boruto (bolt) is another way of saying Aldric (screw).
Aldric places well in the Toren Character Popularity Polls, reaching an all-time high of sixth most popular; he and Bren Ironfist are roughly matched in overall popularity.
In the omake for Toren: Shippūden episode 156, Toren points out how Aldric doesn't appear in Toren: Shippūden very often, whereas Bren and Tenten frequently do. Aldric argues that, as a master, he is constantly away on missions and never has free time.
Studio Pierrot has consistently given him the height of 158 cm at 13yrs, instead of 159.2cm as his Databook profile gives him.
Despite technically being cousins with Elara, she would commonly refer to him as "brother" (Nii-san). This is possibly because their respective fathers are twins, which could arguably also make them half-siblings, making it fit. To which, Elara's children would refer to their late cousin-once-removed as "uncle" (Oji-san).
Quotes
(To Elara) "People are judged by their true nature. It is the way of the world. That is why we have an elite, and that is why we have outcasts. We can change our physical appearance and improve our skills with training and study, but ultimately, we are judged by what we cannot change. What can't be changed must be endured. We are who we are, and we must live with it."
(To Toren) "These eyes of mine show me many things. One thing they've shown me… people's limitations are set, fixed, and unchangeable. Only a fool wastes his time trying to become something he can never be! The only destiny that everyone shares… is death."
(To his father) "Father, is a person's destiny a thing like a cloud flowing with an inescapable flow? Or can a person choose the flow he wishes… I still don't know the answer to this. Either way the destination may be the same in the end. However, by choosing to live like the latter, a person can live and strive towards a goal. And in this match I have finally understood those who have that are truly strong. Father, I have but one goal, I want to become stronger… Enough not to lose to anyone… That's how I feel. Father, the birds are flying freely today… They look so happy."
(To Kidōmaru) "Even if my enemy is far stronger, even if my body should fail me, I cannot lose, there is a reason I cannot lose… …I was always known as a genius so I cannot lose. Especially for the sake of those who believed I was a genius being my weak and powerless self."
(Last words) "Father, I finally understand your feelings… The freedom you felt when you chose to die to protect your friends…"