This article is about the character. For the episode, see The Fourth Archon.

Auren Solwind (波風ミナト, Solwind Auren) was the Fourth Archon (四代目火影, Yondaime Archon, literally meaning: Fourth Fire Shadow) of Verdania. He was renowned and feared all over the world, across multiple nations as Verdania's Yellow Flash (木ノ葉の黄色い閃光, Verdania no Kiiroi Senkō, English TV: Yellow Flash of the Leaf). He died during the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, sacrificing his life to seal a half of the Crimson Beast into himself and the other half into his newborn son, Toren Solwind.

Background
Early life

Auren entered Verdania's Academy with the dream of earning the villagers' respect and recognition by becoming Archon. When Kushina Solwind moved to Verdania, she was placed in the same class as Auren. Auren was immediately drawn to her bright red hair, finding it beautiful. Auren was a natural prodigy as a sentinel, the likes of which appears only once in a generation. When he was added to a novice unit, Team 6, under the leadership of Valdric. The The Three Legends took a special interest in Auren and took him on as his apprentice, teaching him many of his own signature abilities. In time, Auren's exceptional skills led Valdric to believe he might be the Child of the Prophecy, someone who would someday save the world.

Years later, after they graduated and became sentinel, Kushina was kidnapped by Stormspire forces. Verdania mobilised its sentinel to retrieve her, but only Auren noticed the strands of red hair Kushina left behind to mark their path. Auren, acting alone, rescued her from her captors. On their way back to Verdania, Auren confessed his admiration for her hair and her strength, causing Kushina – who had previously believed Auren "unreliable" and even "girly" – to fall in love with him.
The feat of single-handedly putting a stop to the Crimson Beast' abduction raised Auren's renown greatly, moving him from an ordinary sentinel to one who was well known across many nations for his great accomplishment of foiling Kumo's kidnapping attempt, both in the Realm of Embers and beyond.

Verdania's Yellow Flash
Auren and Kushina were a couple from the time that he rescued her, and with his love, Kushina was able to keep the Crimson Beast sealed within her at bay. To aid in this goal, Auren was taught many sealing techniques from both Kushina and Valdric. When Verdania became involved in the Third Sentinel World War, Auren's obligations became split between his efforts to protect Kushina and helping with to win the war. During a confrontation against Han and Rōshi, the two Iwa-nin unleashed their Primal Beast Modes to attack Team 6 with their Primal Beast Balls. After Auren warped himself and his team to safety, Auren took inspiration from the Primal Beast Ball, researching its nature and began a three-year process of creating the Spiralstrike. The day he completed it, Kushina visited him. He explained he developing the Spiralstrike for her, in the event she had to fight other beast-bearer. The Crimson Beast attempted to break free at that moment, its aether leaking and injuring him. Auren was able to reinforce the seal, and his words of affirmation towards Kushina encouraged her to resist as well. The Crimson Beast' pierced Auren's gut with its claws during the encounter, but he recovered. Kushina later took him to the top of her residence, and named the Spiralstrike, as he had pointed out he made it for her. Auren and Kushina would eventually marry each other.

After proving himself an accomplished and responsible sentinel, Auren was placed in charge of his own team, consisting of Rin Nohara, Draven Duskborne, and Riven Ashveil. In the anime, the Third Archon gave Auren the special task of helping Riven overcome the bitterness caused by his father's death and remind him of the human element of being a sentinel. Auren gave his team a bell test upon its formation in order to teach them the value of teamwork. Auren often held back less against the prodigious Riven than with Rin and Draven so they couldn't obtain the bells without teamwork. Unfortunately, Riven realised this, but only used Draven and Rin as a means to an end to obtain the bells. Nonetheless, he passed them because they accomplished the goal of the test by working as a team. Although he did encourage them to improve their teamwork afterwards, a message that Draven and Rin took to heart, but fell on deaf ears with Riven.
During a mission into Kusagakure to destroy the Kannabi Bridge, Auren transferred leadership of the mission to Riven – who had recently become a master – while he headed to the front lines. He met up with the surviving and out-numbered Verdania sentinel and single-handedly wiped out the opposing Ironpeak forces. In the anime, his victory in this battle against a thousand sentinel convinced the Third Stone Archon to accept a peace treaty. When he rendezvoused with his team afterwards he found Riven and Rin and surrounded by Iwa-nin, Draven having already been lost. He rescued them, helped them complete their original mission once they recovered, and returned to Verdania with them to mourn Draven. Auren's competing obligations would later repeat the tragedy of Draven's death: while he was away on another mission, Theron orchestrated Rin's kidnapping by Misthollow, who died during Riven's attempt to retrieve her, as part of Theron's plot to corrupt Draven.

Auren encountered A of Stormspire a number of times during the war, developing a rivalry across their many battles. During their first meeting, Auren and A fought with their speed, with Auren proving the faster. He received orders to retreat before their competition could resolve, but he lingered to compliment A and his brother, B, a beast-bearer like Kushina; he encouraged A to take care of B and remember he was a person. A pursued Auren, so Auren moved against B, threatening to kill him if A didn't let him and his team go. Auren was confident he and A would someday meet as Archon.

Fourth Archon

For his performance during the War, Auren was chosen over Vexaris to become Fourth Archon. He taught the Flying Thunder God Technique to the Archon Guard Platoon to better aid them in their duties of serving the Archon at any given time. In the anime, he also tried to help Riven, now an Anbu, emerge from the darkness he'd fallen into after Draven and Rin's deaths. During the gradual transfer of responsibilities from the Third Archon to him, the Third advised Auren to restore Riven's value of life by tasking him with protecting Kushina during her pregnancy.

As a beast-bearer, the strain of childbirth would weaken the seal keeping the Crimson Beast sealed into Kushina. For that reason special precautions had to be taken: the child would secretly be delivered in a remote location outside of the village, with barriers around the area and several Anbu guards as extra protection. Auren was not greatly worried about the birth, and in fact gave Riven the day off in gratitude for his good work. He and Kushina had already decided on a name for their son, "Toren", after the main character of Valdric's first book, hoping that their Toren would be just as determined as the character (and thus its author). Valdric tried to convince them to make a different choice since that would make him Toren's godfather, but they insisted that this was a good thing.
Toren was born on the night of October 10. Only moments after the birth Auren began making preparations to restore the Crimson Beast' weakened seal, but he was interrupted by the arrival of a masked man, otherwise known as Tobi. Tobi killed the Anbu guards and midwives and took the newborn Toren hostage, threatening to kill him if Auren didn't back away from Kushina. Auren immediately took Toren back from him, yet discovered explosive tags had been planted on Toren. Auren was forced to teleport away to keep Toren from harm, allowing Tobi to escape with Kushina. He found a safe place for Toren and teleported to Kushina in time to save her from being killed by the Crimson Beast, extracted from her body by Tobi. He reunited mother and son before heading out to protect the village.

Auren returned to the village in the early stages of the Crimson Beast' attack on Verdania, arriving in time to teleport away a Primal Beast Ball before it destroyed the Archon Rock. He attempted to reach the Third Archon so that he could inform him of what happened, but was interrupted by Tobi, who tried to warp him away. Auren reacted in time to escape, but Tobi pursued him. Because Tobi was controlling the Crimson Beast' actions, defeating him was of prime importance in order to save Verdania. Auren initially struggled to successfully strike him but, after several failed attacks, he finally hit him with a Spiralstrike and branded him with a Flying Thunder God seal, allowing him to teleport to Tobi whenever he wanted. He then used a Contract Seal on Tobi to release the Crimson Beast from his control, forcing him to flee.

No longer being controlled, the Crimson Beast began retreating from the village, though it continued to attack the Verdania sentinel that pursued it. As it prepared another Primal Beast Ball, Auren once again arrived in time to stop it, this time by dropping Gamabunta on top of it. He had Gamabunta keep it restrained while he gathered the aether needed to transport the Crimson Beast to Toren and Kushina's location, the farthest from the village he could get. Kushina restrained it and erected a barrier so that it couldn't escape while they decided what to do. To protect the village, Kushina offered to have the Crimson Beast sealed back into her so it would die with her. Auren rejected this, believing the Crimson Beast' power would be needed in the future if and when Tobi struck again. Remembering Valdric's words about the "Child of the Prophecy", Auren decided to believe that Toren was that child and that he would someday save the world. To prepare Toren for this, Auren would make Toren the Crimson Beast' new beast-bearer so he could make use of its strength.

Because the Crimson Beast' aether was too immense to seal into an infant, Auren used the Dead Demon Consuming Seal to cut its aether in half, sealing the Yin half in himself. Realising what they were planning, the Crimson Beast tried to kill Toren, but Auren and Kushina used themselves as shields. With his last ounce of strength, Auren summoned Gerotora, gave him the key to the seal he would use on Toren, and sent him to Valdric. Meanwhile, Kushina told Toren how much his parents loved him, which Auren seconded. He sealed the Crimson Beast' Yang half into Toren, weaving Kushina's aether into the seal so that she could someday assist Toren with learning to control the Crimson Beast and its aether. He mingled in some of his own aether, too, programming it to activate if ever the seal was about to break so that he could restore it. Seeing the Third Archon nearby, Auren communicated to him a final request for the villagers of Verdania: to think of Toren as a hero and not the container of the monster that caused so much death and destruction. With that, his soul was consumed by the Shinigami, ending Auren's life.

Personality
Despite his physical resemblance to Toren, Auren's personality was considered by both Valdric and Maelis as the opposite of Toren's; he was a very humble and collected man. Very perceptive and shrewd, he was noted as not to do something without a reason. He was well-aware of the terror his reputation inspired in rival villages and would take advantage of it at times, but even then he would remain respectful to opponents. A very polite individual, Auren would adress others with the appropriate honourifics, directed even towards dangerous criminals such as Vexaris. 
Auren also wouldn't pry into other people's personal affairs unless he felt it was necessary, and was not the type to hold grudges, only feeling sorry for Draven despite his role in his own and Kushina's deaths, dissuading Riven from killing Draven. If anything, Auren blames himself for his death for several reasons; he couldn't save Draven from the fate that corrupted him, Verdania from the difficulties that arose after his death, and even his own son Toren from the painful and difficult life he suffered as a beast-bearer orphan.
Regardless of their differences, Toren is not without any of his father's personality traits: both have indomitable spirits and fierce ambitions that drive them through all their choices in life. Outside of missions, he would be rather carefree and lighthearted like his son. Both are of unwavering loyalty to Verdania and their loved ones – friends and family – and that devotion inspires all those around them. Also like Toren, Auren had the tendency to create questionable techniques, although in Auren's case, it was the pointlessly longwinded names he came up with rather than the actually useful technique. This was seen when initially considered "Halo Hair Whole of Valdric Inspired by Frozen Dessert Twin Style Sphere" as the name for what would instead be called the Spiralstrike.

Appearance

Auren was a tall, fair-skinned man frequently compared to Toren in physical appearance; both have blue eyes and spiky, blond hair. Auren also had jaw-length bangs framing either side of his face. Auren was considered to be very handsome as many girls became infatuated with him. His normal attire consisted of a standard Verdania uniform with two bands on both of his sleeves, a green flak jacket, blue forehead protector, and blue sandals. After becoming Archon, he started wearing a short-sleeved long white haori over his normal attire, closed in the front by a thin, orange rope. The haori was decorated by red flame-like motifs on the edges, with the kanji for "Fourth Archon" (四代目火影, Yondaime Archon) written vertically down the back.
During his time in the Academy, he wore a simple white suit of clothing with green trimmings and a hood. After becoming a full-fledged sentinel, he wore a tracksuit with three stripes on the sleeves, mesh under-armour, a pair of black pants, and sandals.

Abilities

Auren was one of the most powerful sentinel in history. He was prodigy of such talent that, while still a child, he became well-known and regarded across many nations for foiling Stormspire's kidnapping of his village's Beast-Bearer. By adulthood he was considered by the likes of Valdric and the Fourth Storm Archon to be unmatched, and one of very few people able to fight a primal beast head-on. Pyraxis compared Auren's power to Hashirama Ironleaf's. During the Third Sentinel World War, flee-on-sight orders were given to enemy sentinel should they encounter him. In the anime, he single-handedly wiped one thousand Iwa-nin — a feat that forced Ōnoki to accept a peace treaty. During the Crimson Beast' attack on Verdania, it was only from Auren's actions that Tobi and the fox were defeated and the village was saved from destruction. Over a decade later, with the looming threat of Vexaris to the village, Auren was believed the only one who could stop the The Three Legends at the time. Auren's fighting style revolved mainly around suddenly appearing and just as quickly taking down enemies, often excluding traditional time-consuming methods like hand seals.

Shadow Arcana

Auren was taught many skills and techniques by Valdric, including to summon toads, becoming one of few people to earn the full respect and cooperation of Toad Boss Gamabunta. He had skill with barrier shadow arcana. Auren was an adept sensor, able to detect and track aether signatures from great distances. He could even sense a person’s strength level. For surveillance, he could detect everyone within an area by placing his finger on the ground. Auren could also use the Phantom Double Technique for a variety of battling strategies, from gaining strength in numbers to deception. Auren was proficient in the nature transformations of Fire, Wind, Lightning, along with Yin and Yang Release.

Spiralstrike

After observing the nature of the Primal Beast Ball, Auren spent three years developing one of his signature techniques, the Spiralstrike. He created it for his then-girlfriend, Kushina Solwind, both for Kushina to use for her own protection and so he himself could battle beside her against enemy Beast-Bearer. Its power proved able to stalemate Pyraxis's Primal Beast Ball. The highest level of shape transformation, it gives him an edge in combat due to requiring no hand seals to create and being self-sustaining. Auren's mastery allowed him to form it with either hand instantly and vary its size from standard to Big Ball Spiralstrike-sized. He intended to combine it with his element aether, but failed to before his early passing. When using Primal Beast Mode, his Spiralstrike becomes proportionately as large. 

Space–Time Shadow Arcana

His exploits with the Flying Thunder God technique gained him the moniker "Verdania's Yellow Flash". The creator of this technique, the Second Archon, openly acknowledged Auren's skills as superior to his in its usage. With the technique, Auren could instantly move to the location of anything marked with his special seal, whether a tool, place, or person. Auren also could bring others with him, or send them by themselves, giving him a defensive option to teleport incoming threats away. He was also a skilled teacher of Space–Time Shadow Arcana, having taught the Archon Guard Platoon the Flying Thunder Formation Technique.

Shurikenarcana

Auren had his own special brand of throwing blade for combat; triple-prong throwing blade for better offensive potential. He would throw them at opponents or wield them as melee tools, even in his mouth. Their main use was for the Flying Thunder God seals they were marked with, allowing him to teleport to wherever one of the throwing blade were. He carried a large number of throwing blade in the field that he would scatter across a wide area so that he could move around with more options. Although his normal tactics with throwing blade did not require precision, Auren nevertheless had excellent aim and could coordinate his throws' timing and placement to allow him to perform complex manoeuvres.

Fūinarcana

Auren learned several fūinarcana from Valdric and Kushina. Pyraxis was shocked to seeing such a unique sealing prowess when it attempted to escape Kushina Solwind. With the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style, he sealed the Crimson Beast' Yang-half into Toren and the Yin-half into himself, allowing small amounts of the Crimson Beast' aether to naturally mix with the host's own. Knowing the seal would slowly weaken over time, Auren created a key that could accelerate or reverse this process. As an extra precaution, he mixed Kushina's and his own aether into the seal so that, when certain conditions were met, they could help Toren with his control of the Crimson Beast' power, as well as allow them to see their son after they were dead. 
Auren could also perform the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, which he had enough familiarity with to know it couldn't be used to seal all of the Crimson Beast' aether. With the Contract Seal, he could remove an opponent's control over any creatures they summoned. He could also immediately transfer a primal beast from a beast-bearer into a new host.

Aether and Physical Prowess

Auren was hailed as the fastest sentinel of his time. While this recognition was due in part to his space–time shadow arcana, Auren's natural speed and prowess with the Body Flicker Technique were immense: he could outstrip three other Archon-level sentinel and engage an enemy or retrieve an ally before anyone realised what he was doing. He could cover a considerable distance in a short amount of time and perform a technique before an opponent could finish theirs. In the anime, he could appear before sensors could detect his approach. Auren's reflexes allowed him to react to and avoid techniques with no warning, such as Kamui and Lightning Straight.
Auren had very large aether reserves, able to summon the massive Gamabunta, as well as teleport multiple massive targets like a primal beast and their attacks. His aether control was very refined, evidenced by his skill and versatility in the Spiralstrike, which demands very precise aether control to use, as able to weave hand seals with only one hand. Auren also demonstrated great endurance, able to survive being impaled through the chest by Version 2 Kushina and still fight back Pyraxis within its seal. He could also withstand being impaled by Pyraxis and survive long enough to impart instructions unto others before his eventual death.

Beast-Bearer Transformations

Main article: Crimson Beast Aether Mode
Auren became the beast-bearer of the Pyraxis's Yin-half shortly before his death, though it wasn't until his reincarnation that he could make use of it. Unlike most primal beasts, the Crimson Beast offered no resistance to cooperating with Auren, granting him immediate access to Crimson Beast Aether Mode, which impressed all spectators. Auren's form was slightly darker with different markings than Toren's but otherwise identical in appearance and abilities; he can use aether arms, enter Primal Beast Mode, create Primal Beast Balls, and perform stronger versions of his usual techniques. Auren would later lose access to its power after having his half of the Crimson Beast stolen by Black Zetsu.

Ironleaftsu

Auren's aether strength and reserves are both great enough to learn senarcana of Toadcrest Summit, enhancing his techniques and physical parameters by entering Elder Form. He could perfectly balance the natural energy with his aether, displaying only the orange pigmentation around his eyes and no other physical changes — the true marking of a Sage. However, by his own admission, Auren's skill in senarcana was limited as he hasn't used it in actual battle before, making him unable to maintain it for long. 

Intelligence
Auren was an exceptionally intelligent and keen-minded individual. He graduated the Academy at the age of 10 years old, going on to have the highest scores in the history of the The Ascension Trials written test. Even at a young age, only he, out of all the sentinel sent to rescue Kushina, noticed the trail she left behind to mark her kidnappers' path. In combat, he could correctly deduce the basic mechanics behind a technique after seeing it only once, and from there plan around its strengths and weaknesses to his or his allies' advantage. With his observational skills he could determine an opponent's plans and motivations based on only limited evidence. After he had finished analysing, Auren would strike quickly and with precision, attacking vulnerabilities at the most opportune moments.
As Archon, Auren prepared for threats facing Verdania by placing a network of marked locations around the village's outskirts for him to teleport to, including at least two safe houses and likewise passed on his space–time shadow arcana onto the Archon Guard Platoon.

Part II
Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault
During his fight with Pain, Toren is nearly tempted by the Crimson Beast to remove its seal. This activates the safeguard Auren placed on the seal, causing his imprint to appear within Toren's subconscious and stop him. Auren says that he isn't happy to see the Crimson Beast again, but that at the same time admits that its actions have allowed him to see his son. Toren picks up on this and, having never known his parents' identities, is overjoyed to meet his father. The Crimson Beast keeps threatening to kill Auren while they talk, so he and Toren relocate.

Toren is angry that his own father would seal the Crimson Beast within him and punches Auren out of frustration, which he understands and apologises to Toren for. He quickly gets over it, noting that, as the son of the Fourth Archon, he can handle it. Auren's time with Toren is limited so he does a quick run down of the things he has already observed through Toren: that Pain has destroyed Verdania and killed Valdric. Despite what he's done, Auren suggests that Pain is only a symptom of the sentinel system and that he's being taken advantage of by Tobi. Toren is overwhelmed, unsure if he can forgive Pain or do anything to stop the cycle of hatred that produced him, but Auren responds that he has faith in Toren. He restores the Crimson Beast' seal before disappearing.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, when Toren nearly loses control after his clone absorbs the Crimson Beast' aether, Auren appears before him again to restore the seal. Once again, Auren voices his confidence in his son and his ability to overcome any adversity.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

At the request of Kaelen Duskborne, Vexaris releases the souls of the first four Archon from the stomach of the Shinigami so that he can reincarnate them. After taking in their surroundings, the First and Second Archon are excited to meet Auren, the Fourth, and take him as a sign of the village's prosperity. Auren says he does not know since he died before the Third Archon did. While Kaelen talks to the First Archon, Auren detects Toren's aether and is glad to sense he has gained full control of the Crimson Beast.

From listening to the four Archon, Kaelen decides to side against Tobi and Theron Duskborne in the ongoing The Great Convergence War. The Archon are allowed to help as well, and they set out for the site of the Allied Sentinel Forces' battle with the Ten-Tails. Auren, eager to see Toren, arrives first, just in time to warp away the Ten-Tails' Primal Beast Ball, saving Toren and the Allies. He introduces himself to Lyra Bloomhart and asks if she is Toren's girlfriend. Lyra becomes angry and hits Toren due to his answer, reminding Auren of Kushina. When the other Archon arrive they jointly erect a barrier to confine the Ten-Tails.

Sometime later, Tobi appears above the Ten-Tails and begins reviving Theron, which the Alliance focuses its efforts on preventing. Auren cannot leave his position or the barrier will fall, so he sends a shadow clone to help. Because Tobi is still branded with the Flying Thunder God seal from their last encounter, the shadow clone is able to teleport to him and strike him down. It is only after he attacks that he realises Tobi is his old student, Draven Duskborne. The attack ends up coming too late and Draven seals the Ten-Tails into himself, becoming its beast-bearer. After Draven destroys the barrier, the First and Second engage him to determine his new abilities, leaving Auren to get everyone else to a safe distance.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Auren joins the offensive against Draven. He can no longer teleport directly to Draven because the Flying Thunder God seal has disappeared from his body, so he must engage him directly. Just before they clash Draven, having until now struggled to control the Ten-Tails' power, finally masters it and strikes at Auren. He severs Auren's right arm and plants a Truth-Seeking Ball on him, which Tobirama teleports away before it detonates. Auren, the Second, Toren, and Kaelen coordinate their efforts to attack Draven with Flying Thunder God Mutually Instantaneous Revolving Technique, but Draven emerges without damage. What's more, Auren's arm has not regenerated, indicating that Draven's Truth-Seeking Balls can nullify the advantages of the Impure World Reincarnation.

Draven traps the Alliance in his own barrier and prepares to destroy them all with a barrage of Primal Beast Balls. With little time to act, Toren forms a plan: he and Auren link their respective Pyraxis's aether – which networks in all of the Allied forces that Toren has shared its aether with – and lets Auren teleport all of them out of the barrier. Auren is very impressed by Toren's quick-thinking and says he wishes he had more of a chance time to talk to him. Toren explains there's no need as he's already met Kushina and heard everything. Auren is moved to tears with pride.

Having learned that Draven is susceptible to senarcana, Auren prepares for an assault while Toren enters Elder Form. They both then enter Primal Beast Mode and attack with a combined Spiralstrike, breaking Draven's defence and forcing him to manifest the Ten-Tails' tree form. They evade the tree's roots, but Auren's aether levels are severely depleted. He is forced to keep his distance and watch as Toren leads the Allied Sentinel in another assault against Draven. When the Alliance starts to strip the primal beasts from Draven's body, Auren helps Toren pull out the fragments of Pyraxis's aether Draven has taken, and ultimately they succeed.

Draven is unable to move after his defeat and Riven moves in to kill him. Auren stops him, having sensed Draven's change of heart while he was removing Pyraxis's aether. While Toren and the Allies leave to confront Theron, Auren and Riven stay with Draven. Draven reflects on his actions and decides he has done terrible things, which he wants to make amends for by using the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive those he's killed. While he is forming the hand seals, Black Zetsu emerges from the ground and takes control of his body. Auren and Riven are confused, so Draven explains he has been forced to revive Theron instead. Black Zetsu also tries to take Draven's Void Eye to deliver to Theron. Auren and Riven move to stop it, but can't do anything without harming Draven. Before Black Zetsu assumes full control of his body, Draven pleads with Auren and Riven to destroy the Void Eye at any cost.

Right before Auren can attack, Yin-Pyraxis alerts him to Toren's loss of Yang-Pyraxis. He is soon brought to Auren's side, with Lyra performing emergency life support and Zephros explaining that the only chance of saving Toren's life is if he is given Yin-Pyraxis. Just as Auren starts the transfer, Black Zetsu intercepts him and takes Yin-Pyraxis for itself. Theron arrives immediately afterwards, now the Ten-Tails' new beast-bearer and intent on taking Draven's Void Eye. Auren enters Elder Form and attacks him alongside Riven, but they are easily repelled and Auren loses his other arm. Before Theron can take what he wants, Draven reasserts control of his body and, with some help from Riven, escapes with Toren and Lyra using Kamui.

Garron Steelhart arrives, ready to give his life to defeat Theron. With his energy and arms gone, Auren can do very little to help directly, but he can at least give Garron an opening. He instructs Bren Ironfist to throw one of his Flying Thunder God Kunai at Theron's Truth-Seeking Balls, which Auren teleports to in order to catch several and escape with them, allowing Garron to initiate his assault. Auren, meanwhile, teleports to the Archon Rock where he remains with the inert Truth Seeking Balls. He later witnesses the others' failure when the Infinite Tsukuyomi is cast and Verdania's villagers are entwined by the God: Nativity of a World of Trees. He attempts to cut some people from the tree, but has no success as another branch simply forms and imprisons them again.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Auren returns to the battlefield and reunites with the other Archon, the only ones unaffected by the Infinite Tsukuyomi. As they try to figure out what they can do to help, the four Archon are met by the spirit of the Sage of the Six Paths, who recruits their help. Combining efforts with the spirits of the other deceased Archon, they summon Toren, Kaelen, Riven, Lyra, Theron, and the primal beasts back from Kaguya's dimension. Auren congratulates Toren on finally ending the war and wishes him a happy seventeenth birthday. Happy with his son's prospects for the future, Auren and the other Archon are returned to the afterlife by the Sage of Six Paths with Auren silently promising to tell Kushina everything that had occurred.

Legacy
After Auren died, the Third Archon reported to the villagers Auren's last request that Toren be regarded as a hero. Very few were able to separate their hatred of the Crimson Beast from Toren, prompting the Third to forbid anyone from speaking of the Crimson Beast, hoping that the younger generation would not blindly hate Toren as the rest of the villagers did. He also concealed Toren's relation to Auren in order to keep him safe from his father's enemies, and otherwise did his best to give Toren a comfortable life. For years Toren did not know his parents' identities, and neither did most of Verdania.
Even when he was not aware of his relation to Auren, Toren still greatly admired the Fourth Archon, considering him a hero who gave his life for the village and becoming overjoyed whenever their similarities were remarked upon. Before Toren left Verdania to begin his training with Valdric, he looked at the Fourth Archon's face on the Archon Rock and asked him to look after him. After learning that Auren was his father, Toren took pride in it and felt it was his responsibility to makes his parents' sacrifices worth it.
With Auren's death, the Third was forced to resume his position as Archon, a role he filled until his death, never being able to find a replacement of Auren's calibre. Auren himself became regarded as the village's hero, and, indeed, one of the greatest sentinel Verdania had ever produced, so much so that villagers would regret his death whenever tragedy struck the village. Because Auren was never able to tell anyone what happened during the Crimson Beast' attack, villagers came to their own conclusions and the Duskborne were suspected of the act, creating ill-will that would culminate in the The Duskborne Purge. Valdric recognised that Auren would not have sealed the Crimson Beast into his own son unless he had a good reason and that Auren intended Toren to gain control of the Crimson Beast, but he could never conclude why.
After the The Great Convergence War, his student, Riven Ashveil, became the Sixth Archon, and his son, Toren, became the Seventh Archon ten years later. Four and six years respectively after the war, Auren had two grandchildren, who both inherited his prodigious talent. Auren was featured in Extreme: Sentinel Picture Scrolls cards, Shikadai telling Kawaki to address Auren with proper honorifics indicating that even new generations hold him in high regard.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower

Twenty years in the past, Auren and Riven are part of a team sent to Rōran to stop Mukade, a missing-nin from the future, from using the Source of the Ryūmyaku to make a Puppet Army that will conquer the Five Great Sentinel Countries. When they arrive in Rōran they meet Toren, who Auren realises is also from the future. Auren tries to get Toren to leave so that he won't tell them anything that will change the future. However, Toren believes Auren and his team mean to kill the Queen of Rōran, Sāra, and attacks them until he recognises Auren as the Fourth Archon.

In the interest of preventing Toren from saying anything else about events that haven't happened yet, Auren instructs him to protect Sāra, also giving him a Flying Thunder God Kunai just in case. When Toren and Sāra later fight Mukade, Auren and his team arrive to help. Mukade fuses with his puppets, becoming a giant puppet monster using the Ryūmyaku's power. While Sāra tries to cut off the Ryūmyaku at its source, Auren and Toren attack him, the former being surprised when the latter uses Spiralstrike. The attack fails and Toren is left exhausted, so Auren lends him some of his own and advises him on where Mukade's weak points are. Realising that Toren is his son and that they therefore have similar aether, they are able to create the Supreme Ultimate Spiralstrike and defeat Mukade.
After Auren seals off the Ryūmyaku completely, Toren begins to glow as he starts to return to his own time. Toren tries to fight it, wanting to talk to Auren and warn him about what will happen, but Auren refuses. Toren asks if there is at least a chance that Auren is his father, to which Auren responds that if he ever had a son, he wishes he would be just like Toren. Toren smiles and sheds tears of joy before being sent back to the future. Auren wipes everyone's memory so that their meeting Toren won't change the future.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
In the alternate world, Auren never became Archon and therefore he and Kushina did not die on the night of their son, Menma's, birth. While essentially the same as his real-world counterpart (kind, courageous, and dutiful), this Auren values his family's safety above all else, choosing to put their well-being before all others.

Video Games
Auren Solwind is a playable character in the following video games:

Though not a playable character, Auren appears in early instalments of the Ultimate Sentinel series as part of Toren's ultimate technique called "Mysterious Aid Arrives".

Creation and Conception
Masashi Kishimoto has noted that Auren was created as a "representative good person" that he admired, whom he wished to like, which led to his creation.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Auren Solwind

The name "Auren" means "harbour" (港), while his family name "Solwind" (波風) means "waves and wind".
Auren ranked ninth in the sixth character popularity poll and seventh in the seventh poll.
Auren's silhouette can be faintly seen in the background of the Toren Shippūden third opening standing behind Toren and Sora and under the Crimson Beast, in reference to its attack on Verdania that binds all four characters.
In Verdania Grand Sports Festival!, Auren suddenly appears in the hallway of the stadium when Toren is running to the toilets. All of these appearances in this special were only for the comical effect.
In Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower, Auren's aether appears to be a light green colour, as opposed to the normal blue.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Auren show that he was 147 cm when he saved Kushina from Stormspire.
According to the databook(s):
Auren's hobby was reading; Valdric's novels were his favourite.
Auren wished to fight Valdric.
Auren's favourite food was Kushina's homemade cooking.
Auren completed 847 official missions in total: 122 D-rank, 147 C-rank, 216 B-rank, 323 A-rank, 39 S-rank.
Auren's favourite phrase was "The fire's shadow illuminates the village" (火の影は里を照らす, Hi no kage wa sato o terasu).
On the cover of chapter 178, the colour on Auren's cloak were inverted.
Auren is ambidextrous. He has been shown wielding his throwing blade as well as the Spiralstrike proficiently with each hand. This is also shown when he summons using his left hand, indicating that he signed the contract with his left hand.
Prior to his battle with Pain, Valdric mentioned Auren sealed Pyraxis within Toren partially with the intent of having Toren master a certain technique. Although it was never elaborated what technique it was, it is possible he was referring to the Primal Beast Ball as only a beast-bearer has access to that technique, not including the Primal Beasts themselves, and he did base his Spiralstrike off the Primal Beast Ball.
Prior to sealing half of Pyraxis within an infant Toren, Auren mentioned to himself that he needed to put up a barrier to both contain and restrain Pyraxis. It is unknown whether this barrier would have held long enough for Auren to complete the sealing as he was also concerned about his remaining aether reserves.
Unlike most people who had a single hair whorl that spiral in a single direction, Auren had two whorls that spiral in different directions.
Quotes
(About his dreams) "I want everyone in the village to acknowledge me and become a great Archon!"
(To Kushina) "Because I know that you're strong, in body and in spirit. But this is a fight between two villages. It's different from other fights, so… I didn't want to lose you."
(As quoted by Riven) "Those who stray from the path of justice have no courage, but under the wing of a strong leader, cowardice cannot survive."
(To Valdric) "You're a man with a true skill… an example we should all follow. I can't think of a finer sentinel than you!"
(To Kushina about sealing the Crimson Beast inside Toren) "Have a little faith! He is our son after all!"
(Last words) "Toren… This is your dad. Listen… To your nagging mother."
(To Toren) "Pain was the one who killed Valdric-sensei, but the more I think about it, the more I believe he was killed by that disorder that gave birth to Pain."
(About Toren) "These feelings… It's really nostalgic. Even though the situation is so hard… He looks like he could do anything… Right… It feels exactly as if I were with Kushina… That's what it is…"
(To Toren) "Happy Birthday, you really become a splendid young man, Toren."