Bren Ironfist (ロック・リー, Rokku Rī) is a sentinel of Verdania's Bren clan and a member of Team Garron. Unlike most sentinel, he lacked the skills necessary to use shadow arcana or mind arcana. However, he overcomes those shortcomings by undergoing special training from Garron Steelhart that would make him a body arcana master while still a novice.

Background
During his time in the Academy, Bren proved to have no talent for shadow arcana and mind arcana. When he was mocked by his peers because of this, Bren persevered, focusing on body arcana. After he succeeded in graduating he was added to Team Garron along with Aldric Moonvane and Tenten. During the team's first meeting, Bren vowed to become a powerful sentinel without using shadow arcana or mind arcana. Aldric laughed at him, but their sensei, Garron Steelhart, took a special interest in Bren. He encouraged Bren to keep at it and, in time, began teaching him powerful forms of body arcana.

Personality

Under Garron's leadership, Bren has acquired a number of his sensei's personality traits: he is energetic, optimistic, and hot-blooded, and shows the epitome of a "nice guy". He believes that one cannot dislike food and shows strong dedication to his promises; when this promise is broken, just barely, he assigns himself arduous training to prevent it from happening again. Bren speaks respectfully to others, never using contractions or swear words and always addressing people with appropriate honourifics (except his teammates, since Bren feels they are close enough to be spoken to informally). He also carries a small book and pencil to recall advice that Garron gives him over time.
Despite his passionate nature, Bren has also shown strong instincts, staying focused at the task at hand and rarely losing his composure. He has a keen sense of honour and respects his opponents, refusing to hold grudges against those who have defeated him, and returning favours to those that have helped him. This was shown by his befriending of Zephros, forgiving him for crushing his arm and leg — injuries that nearly ended his career as a sentinel. Bren feels others should show the same respect towards their opponents, and is disgusted whenever someone is unnecessarily cruel to their enemies.
One of Bren's recurring themes throughout the series is his drive to succeed, believing with enough hard work and perseverance, he can surpass a natural genius. He can be prone to depression when faced with setbacks. Aldric, Bren's more talented teammate and rival, found Bren's efforts to be in vain, believing a "failure" could never defeat a "genius". As such, Bren became determined to defeat Aldric in order to prove him wrong, though was met with defeat every time. When Aldric himself was defeated by Toren Solwind, another so-called "failure", he rejects his belief in fate and now holds great respect for Bren, believing that he will surpass the gifted with enough work.

During Part I, Bren revealed he had feelings for Lyra Bloomhart. Although she did not reciprocate his feelings and even considered him weird, she later become more appreciative and friendly towards him after he helped saved her from the Otogakure novice during the The Ascension Trials. After the exams, Bren's interest in Lyra went largely unaddressed in the manga, though it is sometimes referenced in the anime; while having a match with Bren, Toren transformed into Lyra, distracting Bren long enough for Toren to attack him. However, Bren's Infinite Tsukuyomi dream was of winning Lyra's affections, implying he still had romantic feelings for her. These feelings apparently have changed by adulthood, as Bren ended up marrying someone else and had a son named Metal Bren.

Appearance

Bren has shiny black hair, perfectly round eyes with prominent lower eyelashes, and very thick eyebrows; as a result, Toren calls him "Centipede Brows" (ゲジマユ, Gejimayu, English TV: Bushy Brows). As a child, his hair was quite long and fastened in a braid, though he cuts it short by the time he joins Team Garron, letting it curve out and upward. Bren originally wore a white, short-sleeved kimono-shirt with a martial arts belt and dark pants, giving him a more traditional Chinese appearance. He also sported a forehead protector and sentinel sandals.
Bren later changes his appearance considerably to emulate his idol and sensei, Garron: his hair is now in a bowl-cut style; he wears a green jumpsuit, orange leg warmers, and a red forehead protector worn as a belt. He has bandages around his forearms up to his fingers, covering a set of stitches on his hands that were caused by his rigorous training. Like Garron, Bren's appearance remains largely the same over the years, though he adds a standard Verdania flak jacket as a adept in Part II, and its redesigned version in The Last: Toren the Movie. As an adult, Bren grew noticeably muscular with more-defined cheekbones, and now wears a sleeveless jumpsuit with an orange neckwarmer.

Abilities

While in the Academy, Bren was looked down upon for his inability to use either shadow arcana or mind arcana. However, with the guidance and support of Garron Steelhart, Bren conditioned himself into a superb sentinel who relies exclusively on body arcana. While originally very limited in even that skill, Bren proved to be a late bloomer by Part I: His greatly improved skill was evident when he defeated Kaelen Duskborne (a natural prodigy), posed a challenge against Zephros in the The Ascension Trials, and held his own against Kimimaro. As a adept, he was capable of defeating the legendary body arcana master Chen, as well as destroy a meteorite by himself. By adulthood, he had advanced to the rank of master.

Physical Prowess

By age 13, Bren's arduous training conditioned him into essentially a body arcana master, showing great proficiency in the Strong Fist fighting style. His strength could unearth a massive tree root from the ground, and even though Kaelen could predict his moves with the Eclipse Eye in their first fight, his body wasn't fast enough to react to them. As per his training Bren has worn heavy ankle weights (重り, Omori) even in fights and became much faster when they're removed, enabling him to become the first person ever to bypass Zephros's Shield of Sand and strike him. As a adept, Bren learned to perform the Leaf Great Gale (木ノ葉大烈風, Verdania Daireppū). In the anime, due to Bren's extensive training, he has shown to be able to run and fight even while unconscious or asleep, using nothing but pure muscle memory. As an adult, Bren is considered to be one of Verdania's best body arcana users.

Drunken Fist

Bren's very low tolerance for alcohol gives him a natural predisposition for the Drunken Fist style. When he consumes as little as one drop of alcohol, Bren becomes an unpredictable and nearly unstoppable force of destruction and chaos, attacking anyone whether they are friend or foe. This gives him considerably greater speed and dexterity, allowing him to strike and effectively dodge from various positions. Kimimaro, one of Vexaris's strongest subordinates, was ultimately overwhelmed by Bren's attack patterns with Drunken Fist, noting that they were too unpredictable to follow. 

Eight Gates

Through Garron's teachings, Bren learned to open five of the Eight Gates at age 12, the sixth gate at age 17, and (in the anime) the seventh gate some time after the The Great Convergence War. By adulthood, Bren mastered the final gate. Using the 6th gate Bren is able to move so fast he can save Garron from Theron's Truth Seeking Ball, which moved fast enough that Draven couldn't use Kamui to escape from them. He is recognised as a genius for this feat by Riven Ashveil, who notes it is highly difficult for even the most talented sentinel to open even one gate. With each gate he opens, Bren's strength, speed, aether levels, and bodily functions increase tremendously. However, the longer he maintains any of these gates, the more strain and potential physical damage his puts on himself from pushing his performance so far past his natural limits. For this reason, Bren is only permitted to open any of the gates during the most dire situation or to protect something very dear to him. Through his continued training, Bren has become able to open some of the Eight Gates instantly and shows a faster recovery rate from using them, but he nevertheless succumbs to the pain or exhaustion they cause.
Bren has learned to use a number of body arcana techniques that he can perform once certain gates have been opened; with the first gate, he can use the pile-driving Front Lotus; with the third gate, he can use the more destructive Reverse Lotus; with the sixth gate, he can perform the Crane Wing Formation in collaboration with members of the Suicide Corps, which proved to be powerful enough to destroy half of a giant meteorite.

Other Skills
Although Bren possess very little skill in shadow arcana, he can still perform basic aether control skills, like using aether to walk on vertical surfaces, as well as water. In the anime, he also developed enough skill to dispel mind arcana.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Having opted not to participate the year before, Team Garron took part in the The Ascension Trials along with the Rookie Nine. They initially tried to avoid attention by acting weak, but Bren accidentally let slip his true strength by interfering with a fight between Kaelen and Kotetsu Hagane. He also fell in love with Lyra. Soon afterwards, he confronted Kaelen, challenging him to a fight to see how he fared against the Eclipse Eye, but not before knocking out Toren, who tried to fight with Bren himself. After battling Kaelen, Bren easily gained the upperhand but Garron interrupted Bren and Kaelen's fight as Bren tried to use the Front Lotus, and Bren was forced to do laps around the practice range before he could proceed onto the first phase of the exams. With Tenten's help, he gained the answers for the written portion, and proceeded to the second round.
After spending their first few days in the Forest of Death gathering supplies, Team Garron split up in search of other teams. Bren came across Lyra being attacked by Team Dosu, and went to her aid. He used his Front Lotus on Dosu Kinuta, but he survived the attack because of Zaku Abumi using his Decapitating Airwaves in the ground, and Bren was left unable to defend himself from a counterattack from Dosu. Aldric and Tenten soon arrived to help, but didn't have to because Kaelen woke up and took care of Team Dosu. Once Bren recovered and they collected the specific scroll, they moved onto the preliminaries.

In the preliminaries, Bren was matched against Zephros. When his standard attacks proved unable to bypass Zephros's defences, he removed his ankle weights to increase his speed and managed to land a couple of hits on Zephros. Then, he attempted the Forward Lotus, but Zephros was able to escape at the last minute revealing a sand clone instead. His options running out if he was to win and prove himself, Garron allowed him to use the Reverse Lotus. Zephros barely survived by turning his gourd to sand to cushion him, and the techniques took a massive toll on Bren's body. Zephros added to Bren's injury by crushing his left arm and leg. Though Garron intervened to stop Zephros from killing him, Bren got to his feet to continue the battle, despite being completely unconscious.
Because of his injuries, medics predicted, that even if Bren recovered, his injuries would prevent him from ever being able to be a sentinel again. He nevertheless tried to train while he was in the hospital, something that only worsened his condition. When he was asleep, Zephros came to his room and tried to kill him, but he was stopped by Toren and Corvin Shadewell and later by Garron. To try and cheer Bren up, Garron took him to watch the final round matches, but they were surprised when they arrived to find out that Aldric had been defeated by Toren. Bren silently congratulated Toren and then watched Zephros's fight with Kaelen, and marvelled at how quickly he had learned to emulate Bren's speed. Before the fight could finish, however, the Verdania Crush began, and Bren was knocked unconscious.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush
Bren can be seen at the Third Archon's funeral alongside the other villagers, mourning his death.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Over the coming weeks, Garron tried a number of his own remedies to heal Bren, though none of his efforts worked. It was not until news of Maelis becoming Archon reached them that they found hope. But, when she examined Bren, she informed him of the dire situation: his broken bones and torn muscles have healed, but fragments of bone had lodged in his spinal column, and removing them would involve an extensive operation that only she was capable of. When Maelis offered him an operation that carried a fifty percent chance of returning him to his former state, or dying in the process, Bren was hesitant to accept the operation. Though Bren was worried he would die in the operation, thanks to Garron's influence, he accepted the surgery. Upon overhearing Toren, Chōji Boulderkin, Kiba Fangcrest, and Corvin talking about the mission to bring Kaelen back to Verdania, Bren suggested that Aldric go with them. Bren was disappointed that he couldn't go with them, still needing to go through his surgery that was scheduled for later that day (In the anime, Bren was recovering after having his surgery done the day before). In the end, Bren successfully survived the operation.
Once Bren was well enough to move, he left the hospital to follow them and provide assistance. He caught up with Toren, who was in the middle of a battle with Kimimaro, and told him to go after Kaelen while he dealt with Kimimaro. At first, it seemed Kimimaro overmatched him, but after Bren drank some sake that he had mistaken for his medicine, he began to outclass Kimimaro. Though Bren's anticipated moves were unpredictable to Kimimaro, he revealed his Kekkei Genkai, Shikotsumyaku, which, combined with Bren sobering up, easily took over the battle. Before his attack landed on Bren, Zephros arrived just in time to save him. Even though Bren insisted to fight side-by-side with him, he knew he was only getting in Zephros's way.

For the rest of the battle, Bren watches and is amazed by Zephros's new abilities. Even though Zephros's new techniques completely buried Kimimaro, Kimimaro counters by turning the battlefield into a forest of bones, which Bren and Zephros escaped by hanging onto a pair of small clouds made out of sand. Kimimaro then emerged from one of the bones, preparing to kill the two at point blank range. They were saved, however, as Kimimaro finally succumbed to his disease and died. After the battle, Bren and Zephros reflect upon Kimimaro's purpose, then the two return to Verdania.

Kurosuki Family Removal Mission
Main article: Kurosuki Family Removal Mission

In the anime, Bren revealed that he once ran a marathon with Garron near the village of Katabami Kinzan shortly after being assigned to his team, and when he collapsed from exhaustion near the Curry of Life shop, the owner, Sanshō, and her son Karashi fed him curry and saved his life. Bren's dedication caused Karashi to become enthusiastic, and he later left. A year later, when he came to the village with his teammates and Toren to defeat the Kurosuki family, he found that Karashi had joined, and was upset that Karashi had sought strength in this way. He allowed Karashi to seek redemption, but Karashi used this opportunity to lure Bren's group into a trap after their first battle with Raiga. The trap failed due to Toren's use of shadow clones, and while the villagers were willing to seek vengeance on Karashi, Bren stepped in, promising to take responsibility for Karashi's actions. Karashi used the opportunity to take Ranmaru to revive Raiga. Bren went to fight Raiga with Toren and Aldric, and was knocked out but brought back to consciousness with the Curry of Life. The curry, however, accidentally contained wine, and Bren was intoxicated and performed the Drunken Fist. He fought Raiga drunkenly, but was defeated, and Toren finished Raiga off. Later, when the group went back to the Curry of Life shop, they found out that Karashi had made a new curry that looked so bad that even Toren didn't want to eat it. Bren, however, couldn't wait to try it, so the rest of the group had to literally drag him back to Verdania while he cried for the curry.

Academy Student Lead Mission
Main article: Academy Student Lead Mission
In the anime, Bren was assigned to lead a team of three Academy students on a survival exercise. After fending off some 'bandits', one of Bren's charges addressed Bren as "Bren-sensei" out of awe, and, overjoyed, Bren went off into one of his declarations into the sunset whilst his students tried to tell him that he was going the wrong way.

The Appearance of Strange Visitors
Main article: The Appearance of Strange Visitors
In the anime, Garron and Bren left the village on a mission, and two spies tried to imitate them. Maelis immediately saw through their disguise, and gave them various difficult, disgusting, or humiliating missions in order to keep them busy and prevent them from learning anything. Bren and Garron spot the imposters leaving he village. The imposters attacked but were sent flying back to Verdania.

Star Guard Mission
Main article: Star Guard Mission
In the anime, Bren accompanied Aldric, Toren, and Tenten on the mission to Hoshigakure, playing a lesser role than in previous arcs. He attempted to follow two of Akahoshi's men while hiding under a barrel, as Tenten suggested, but was discovered almost instantly. While trying to infiltrate Akahoshi's mansion, he pretended to use a arcana known as "Wall-Removing Technique", but, in actuality, it involved him moving at high speed to open a door from the other side. He was wounded during the final battle with Akahoshi, leaving Toren to fight him alone.

Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!
Main article: Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!

In the anime, Bren, seeing that he had little time to train with other people due to the many missions that must be done, sought a new means of training. After having seen a man challenging a dōjō, ready to take the sign if he won, and ready to join if he lost; Bren founds his own dōjō (which he names the "Gutz Dōjō"), believing that a dōjō would draw-in many strong opponents. When Toren stumbled upon the dōjō, Bren asked that he fight, but Toren had to leave hastily, late for reporting back to Maelis.
Garron, after hearing about the dōjō from Toren, decides to disguise himself in order to fight Bren. However, he was given a mission at the last second, and (unbeknown to Garron) an impostor replaced him. Bren fought the impostor and easily defeated him, but Toren believed that the impostor was Garron, and that he was not fighting at full strength in order to avoid revealing himself, so Toren challenges and fights against Bren. Meanwhile the impostor transformed into Bren, but met the real Garron while trying to leave, and was easily defeated by him.

Third Great Beast Arc
Main article: Third Great Beast Arc
In the anime, Bren's condition worsened, and Maelis became concerned about him injuring himself again. She removed him from missions, but allowed him to keep training after he convinced her to do so. Around this time, Garron arrived with a new student, who easily defeated Bren and injured his ankle. While Bren was recovering, Garron took the new student with him on a mission, causing Bren to believe that he had abandoned him. It was then revealed that the new student was an impostor, and that he planned on seeking vengeance against Garron. Bren headed to Garron's location, but was trapped in a castle made out of sparring posts. He and Bren were tricked into fighting each other by seeing the other as a sparring dummy, but they saw through the technique, recognising each others fighting style, and opened their aether gates to destroy the dummies without harming the actual person, freeing themselves and destroying the castle.

Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
Main article: Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
In the anime, Bren and rest of the Verdania 11 came down together to stop Gennō from bombing Verdania. Despite having few special abilities, made some noteworthy contributions to the investigation. While he initially encouraged the Academy students to keep practising throwing throwing blade, once he realised that hitting the bull's eye would cause a chain reaction that would detonate explosives around Verdania, he caught a throwing blade in midair just before it hit the target, despite being far away from it. Bren defeated Gennō with his body arcana during the final confrontation.

Gantetsu Escort Mission
Main article: Gantetsu Escort Mission
In the anime, Toren accompanied Lyra and Bren to escort Gantetsu. When the ship was sliced in half by a metal wire, Bren ended up with Lyra, and found the orphans Gantetsu had cared for. During the raid on the hideout, he fought the Shinobazu members outside.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
In the anime, Bren and Toren helped Zephros fight and defeat Seimei — an opponent who could absorb his enemies' aether with his armour. After the mission, he sparred with Tenten, who was upset over being the only member of the Verdania 11 left out of the mission despite having a mission at the time, and noted that, in order to be able to face Toren when he returned, they too must become stronger.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
In the anime, after about two years, the The Ascension Trials are held, co-sponsored by Verdania and Suna. While waiting to register, Team Garron spots Toren, much too their surprise. However, Aldric reveals that it was only Verdaniamaru in disguise, who explained that he didn't want Toren to miss out on this opportunity since he was away. With some comforting words from Bren and Aldric, Verdaniamaru and his friends take their leave.

As part of the first stage, all teams were randomly split into different rooms to take the written test. Bren was placed in room 2 with Ino Mindthorn and Shino Hivewood. On a monitor, Corvin as proctor explained that everyone only needed to answer one question, but their team's combined score must equal exactly 100 points to pass. Thanks to Aldric, all the teams that were struggling were able to figure out which question to answer based on the specific amount of vibrations sent through the wall. To everyone's surprise, Corvin revealed a bonus question which asked that if a situation required you to sacrifice a teammate to be a decoy, which one would you choose. This was however a trick question that required no answer, as it was a test of loyalty, something that Bren and his team understood, allowing them to pass the first stage. However, as a result of having too many participants, a race to Suna was held, where only the first 30 teams to arrive at the destination would qualify for the second stage.

Ultimately, his team were among the first 30 teams to make it. During dinner, the novice tried to keep Burami from leaking sweat all over the food, and although they were successfully able to do that, the food was still ruined as result of Aldric's Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven accidentally knocking the food down. This caused an all-out brawl between the novice in the room. Bren tried not to fight, but when he tried to strike Shira, his attack proved futile. Eventually everyone lost their desire to fight when Fū arrived with her optimistic ways. Later, Bren approached Shira, noting from their earlier encounter, that he also endured much adversity, to which Shira stated true determination will ultimately succeed. 
The following day, the second exam began. Like the last exam in Verdania, the teams were each given either a Heaven or Earth scroll and were required to obtain the other scroll. They would then have to bring the set to the main building in the centre of Demon Desert, having three days to so. As they began wondering around aimlessly, Bren realised a pattern and began marking rocks with throwing blade, concluding that they were wondering in circles. After dispelling the mind arcana, they find Team Goji and proceed to attack them, only for Team Shira to interfere and help their fellow Suna-nin. Unbeknownst by Team Garron, they get caught in another mind arcana by Sen. After Sen undoes the mind arcana, Team Garron finds that they are caught in quicksand, which drags them down into a waterfall sand pit. Bren manages to save his teammates and himself from falling to their doom after opening the second of the Eight Gates. After escaping from the pit, they find Team Shira in trouble, as they were being attacked by treacherous Suna-nin. Feeling compelled to help, Team Garron decides comes to Team Shira's aid, after which Aldric asked why they were attacked at all. It was explained that Team Goji simply had no respect for Shira as a sentinel, with Bren deducing that like him, Shira had no skill for mind arcana and shadow arcana, causing him to be ridiculed by his peers.

 
Bren, in a pit of rage over Team Goji's disrespect, storms off to convince them to apologise to Shira. When this fails, the Suna-nin attack, trapping Bren in a sandstorm that cast illusions of figures attacking to distract him from the real threat when they strike him with water needles. Just as he is about to be finished, Aldric and Tenten arrive to save him. Before the battle continues, Shira begs the Verdania-nin not to leave them be, insisting that their distaste of him is his own fault for not training hard enough. Bren believed the very opposite however, but ultimately he and his team agreed. Shira offered his scroll to one of the Suna-nin teams as they technically defeated his team earlier. As Shira's words finally reached the spiteful Suna-nin, they declined and instead gave Shira's team and Bren's team their own respective scrolls as they lost this battle. After the Suna-nin left, determined like Shira to prove themselves by finding more scrolls, Shira agreed to Bren's request to have a one-on-one battle.

 
While seemingly equal in raw speed and skill, Aldric noted that Shira had a slight advantage with his more solid built, and by extension greater raw strength. As Bren attempted to use the Eight Gates, he was unable to do so due to Shira already anticipating this and striking his pressure points beforehand. As Bren began changing tactics from Garron Steelhart's teachings, manipulating how Shira would move, he began to drive Shira back. After acknowledging each other's determination, Shira struck Bren's pressure points again to remove the block, wanting to face Bren at his best. As Bren entered the Eight Gates, Shira used the Seven Heavens Breathing Method, which proved to be on par with the Eight Gates. As the intensity grew between the two, Shira's previous wounds begin to reopen, prompting Bren to call off the fight. As Shira was being healed by Yome, he explained that after the The Ascension Trials ends, he will be enlisting in a special force on the outskirts of Suna so that he could be closer to his parents. Bren wished Shira good luck and gave him one of his jumpsuits as a gift, acknowledging their new friendship.
On the third day of the exam, Team Garron cross paths with a team of Ame kunoichi and battles them. After a short skirmish, the enemy team decided to retreat as Team Garron was not the target they sought for. Despite this, Bren's team pursued the Ame-nin into an old ruins. During their continued battle, the ground collapsed, swallowing Tenten and Ajisai, and separating them from their respective teams. Though Bren and Aldric wanted to work together to save one another's teammate, the two Ame-nin turned them down and left. Bren suggested that they plough their way through the rubble, only for Aldric to reject the idea in fear of causing more damage than desired. When Bren and Aldric find the two Ame-nin, they aid them in their fight against another Verdania team as they needed their help to find Tenten. This prompted the other Verdania team to retreat as they were outnumbered. After the two teams agree to work together, they battle a colony of large ants, but it is Tenten who defeats them. Having now been reunited, the two teams part ways peacefully.

Later, Team Garron get caught in a massive sandstorm. Unable to push forward, Aldric repelled the sand long enough for Tenten to summon a protective dome for them to wait out the storm. After the storm cleared and they resumed their efforts to past the exam, they spotted Matsuri, who begged them to help save Zephros. Team Garron was soon approached by Fū's teammates, who agreed to unite their efforts in hopes of saving Fū and Zephros. While Bren and Matsuri joined Fū's teammates in distracting Hōichi, Aldric and Tenten tried to save the beast-bearer. Ultimately, Aldric was able to free Zephros and Fū with his Gentle Fist, which came at Hōichi's expense as the chains soon turned on him, still seeking primal beast aether and ultimately bound him.
Despite lacking a matching set of scrolls, Bren's team decided to complete the exams and head to the main building. There, it was learned that the The Ascension Trials were ended early due to controversy happening in the second exam. Instead, it was decided by Zephros that a report on each participant would be sent to their respective village leader for them to decide if they would be promoted. Upon returning to the village, Maelis promoted Bren and Tenten to adept, while Aldric was promoted to jonin.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

After Team Riven was sent on a mission to rescue Zephros from The Obsidian Circle, Maelis began to worry that they might have problems so she sent Team Garron as back-up. On their way to a rendezvous point they encountered Pakkun, who redirected them to Team Riven's destination. Soon after they were attacked by Kisame Hoshigaki. As the battle waged on Bren was able to disarm Kisame shortly but soon was captured alongside Aldric and Tenten in a Water Prison by Kisame's water clones. After a while Aldric was able to free Bren and himself allowing Bren to rescue Tenten before she suffocated. Afterwards they watched on as Garron finished off Kisame. Upon Kisame's defeat they discovered that it was not really him they were fighting against, only a lookalike. Realising they were being stalled, Pakkun led them off towards Team 7.

When they convened with Team Riven, Team Garron was tasked with bringing down the barrier blocking the entrance to the The Obsidian Circle lair. Aldric used his Lunar Eye to find the seals keeping the barrier in place and directed the locations of them to the rest of the team. Once they found the seals they simultaneously taking them off, succeeding in removing the barrier but in the process were immediately ambushed by copies of themselves. Soon after Bren and his clone started fighting, matching each other attack for attack. After being evenly matched with his clone, Bren communicated to the rest of the team who were in the same situation and proposed a solution: to become stronger than they had been when the copies had been created. With that, Bren used a new technique and defeated his clone.

With their battles won, Team Garron reunited and went to meet up with Team 7 again. On their way Aldric spotted Deidara with his Lunar Eye and the team manage to sneak up behind him in time to block his escape. After fighting the team Garron, Deidara realised he was outmatched and he attempted to retreat. While on Deidara's tail Team Garron cornered him, leading him to make an exploding clone, resulting in almost killing both teams were it not for Riven's intervention. After Zephros was revived and their mission completed, both teams accompanied him back to Duneholm and later paid their respects at Chiyo's grave. Afterwards both teams departed for Verdania. On their way, Garron started carrying Riven who had been incapacitated from using the Ascended Eclipse Eye too much. Seeing this as a form of training, Bren told Aldric to get on his back so that they might race back to Verdania, but was forcefully rejected.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Bren and the rest of Team Garron were only seen in the very beginning of this arc in the anime, as they returned from Suna. Bren, thinking he had come in second place in his and Garron's race from Duneholm to Verdania, was shocked when Garron informed him that since he was carrying Riven on his back as well, Bren had only come in third. Bren was seen carrying everyone's packs when they returned to Verdania. After escorting Riven to the hospital, Team Garron went to rest.

Twelve Guardian Sentinel
Main article: Twelve Guardian Sentinel
In the anime, Bren and his guy peers were invited Asuma Embercrown to join him for a lunch out with a guest from outside the village. When the village was invaded by Furido's 4-Man Team, the enemies resurrected members of the Kohaku clan. Bren fought alongside other Verdania-nin to keep the zombie-nin at bay. Later, when Sora, who was discovered to be a Pseudo-Beast-Bearer transformed, he and the others went to stop him. However, Sora proved too much and Toren instead faced him and eventually stopped him. At the end, the invaders were all defeated.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
In the anime, he is seen at Asuma's funeral, mourning his loss.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance
In the anime, Bren was placed on Team Two with Yamato as leader and assistance from Tenten, Kiba and Akamaru. After his team settles in their position, they spot an enemy. Bren storms in for attack, connecting withwith a kick but the enemy is revealed to be a smoke clone. The real Kigiri with his allies reveal themselves, and soon Bren finds himself trapped in Kigiri's smokescreen. After remembering a discussion about using other senses with Garron, he found his way through and attacked Kihō with Front Lotus. His team ultimately defeated the enemy the opposing sentinel.
Later, he battled alongside Tenten against Guren and Rinji on the lake while Team Three tried to seal the Three-Tails. After the beast went berserk, he and the others retreated, carrying an unconscious Ino to shore. After recuperating, they all agreed to try the task again. Afterwards, Bren and his team end up battling the enemies from their earlier encounter. Unfortunately, his team lost due to the enemies' cursed seals being activated, making them stronger than before. Later, to his and the others surprise, the enemies merged, becoming an even bigger threat. However, the Three-Tails while on its rampage, crushed the merged foes. Having failed to seal the beast the second time, they returned to Verdania.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

During Pain's assault on Verdania, Team Garron was away on a mission. On their way returning to the village, they noticed a large number of birds flying from the direction of the village and rushed to see what the issue was. The team then stumbled upon a defeated Gamabunta, who informed them that the village was in destruction. When they arrived to see the village in ruins they also spotted a severely wounded Elara Moonvane, and got her medical attention after Tenten noted that her wounds weren't fatal. Katsuyu later informed them that Toren was fighting with the last Pain member, much to everyone's shock. Garron insisted that he and his team provide back-up, but Katsuyu mentions that Toren does not want anyone else to get involved. Later, Bren, alongside the other villagers, celebrated Toren's victory over the defeat of Pain.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

When news reaches Verdania of Kaelen Duskborne's crimes against other villages, Bren and the rest of the Verdania 11 decide they should eliminate Kaelen themselves before he can involve Verdania in a war. So that Lyra can inform Toren of their decision, Bren, Kiba, and Sai escort her to the Land of Iron. When they locate him, Lyra tells Toren that she loves him, surprising Bren. This does not convince him to give up his own search for Kaelen, so they leave without another word, despite Bren's protest. Lyra then asks her escorts to help her find Kaelen. When they near his location while Bren, along with Kiba, try to protest how telling Toren the truth would have been better, Lyra tries to knock them out so she can face Kaelen alone. Sai stops her, so Lyra convinces Bren and Kiba that he is a traitor. While they try to detain him, she succeeds in knocking them out.
After Lyra and the rest of Team 7 meet with Kaelen, they retrieve Bren and the others and return to Verdania. Bren is later seen with the rest of the Verdania 11 hearing Toren's decision to take responsibility for Kaelen. Though they protested this action, Toren firmly states that he would be the one to take care of Kaelen. Before leaving, he promises to tell them everything when the time was right.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Bren and his teammates were sent to back up Team Riven who were investigating what was happening at The Hole located in the Tonika Village. During this mission, Bren and Garron confronted Toren's berserk clone, and after opening the Fifth Gate alongside his mentor, was able to stave off the creature before it took on a pseudo-Crimson Beast form.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

During the The Great Convergence War, Bren is assigned to the Third Division alongside Lyra and Garron. He is seen fretting over his sensei's condition while Lyra tries to heal him. When members of the Surprise Attack Division are attacked by the reincarnated sentinel, the Third Division arrives in time to intercept the attack. He is then seen along with the Third Division clashing against the reincarnated sentinel. Upon Riven's orders, they group into a Manji Formation, Bren promises that no matter what he will protect Lyra; she however tells him to also be careful as last time Zabuza was able to penetrate the formation from its weak point; the centre. He and Garron later intercepted Haku's assault with the Leaf Coiling Whirlwind. In the anime, after the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist were summoned, Garron told Bren to chase after Pakura while he went after Gari. After a long day battling, Bren and the recuperates with his remaining division members as night falls.

With the resumption of battle the next day, Bren sticks close to Sai who had been tasked with sealing the reincarnated Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist. Bren tells Sai not to worry and just concentrate on the sealing while he would protect him. When Toren's shadow clone arrives on the battlefield, Bren exclaims that with him here their numbers would increase. However, Toren tells them that he wouldn't be able to perform the Phantom Double Technique in his current state, so they'd have to defeat the new wave of White Zetsu Army clones with quality of techniques instead of quantity in numbers.

Later in the anime, the Third Division came across another reincarnated sentinel: Master Chen — a renown hero of Verdania who was thought to have died during the Third Sentinel World War. As Garron Steelhart who is happy at the prospect on challenging such a famed body arcana master, Verdania's Sublime Green Beast of Prey soon finds himself being forced on the defensive by the old man. A sentinel is able to break away from the battle and in his search for reinforcements, finds Bren Ironfist who rushes to Garron's aid. Seeing the legend he met once before as a novice before him, Bren reveals his history with Chen before engaging the legend in battle. Ultimately, Bren is able to counter Chen's Leaf Dragon God technique, using the One-Man Front Lotus which he had engineered to counter the rotation of the winds of the former. As Chen's immortal body disintegrates, he remembers the time when he had his own student who was incapable of using shadow arcana, and how he had died during the Third Sentinel World War. Finally letting go of his painful past and apologising to the young man for what he had said, the old master was able to break the summoning contract and his soul returns to the afterlife. Bren promises to Chen that he'll bring rice balls to his grave.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax
After being informed by Inoichi from HQ that Toren and B were fighting the "masked Theron", Bren and the rest of the Verdania 11 rush to his aid. As he runs, he spurred Sai — who was lamenting the fact that he could not use his Super Beast Imitating Drawing technique to get to Toren faster — onwards telling him that now was the time to respond to the heroic efforts of those fighting Tobi.

Upon finally arriving at the battlefield, and seeing his mentor's state, Bren asked whether or not Garron had used the Daytime Tiger technique again. He later stood with the other members of the Allied Sentinel Forces as they prepared to face their opposition. Opening the Fifth Gate, Bren and his mentor prepare to attack the two Duskborne, but are buffeted by the force exerted by the now fully-matured Ten-Tails as it escaped the hole it had seemingly been trapped in. He is then seen with Garron and Tenten reacting to Aldric's death. Tearfully holding his fallen teammate's corpse, he was stopped by Garron who told him to keep his tears and hold onto the feelings Aldric left them. Bren was then seen listening on as Toren imparted comforting words to the Allied Forces.

Thinking back on his time with Aldric growing up and the conversations they had, Bren mused about something Aldric had said to him. Having received aether from Toren, the now empowered Bren, respectfully closed his fallen comrade's eyes before joining the ranks of the other Allied sentinel. Charging forward with the Alliance, Bren signalled to Toren that he would deal with Theron while he took care of Draven. With Garron giving him a boost, Bren propelled towards Theron and remorselessly bisected the Duskborne with a powerful kick, also destroying Theron's connection to the beast.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Bren would later stare in amazement at the red barrier that had been constructed around the Ten-Tails and listened on as Garron noted that only sentinel of Archon-calibre were able to perform the Four Red Yang Formation technique. With the situation later turning grim as the Alliance was trapped in a barrier with a Primal Beast Ball-firing tree, Bren and the other sentinel soon found themselves shrouded in the previous Version 1 mantles again. He and the other subsequently found themselves on the outside of the barrier, escaping the near-fatal attack thanks to Toren and Auren's action.

The Ten-Tails transformed into its tree form, and many sentinel were attacked but Bren was able to escape. Hashirama Ironleaf had Ino Mindthorn everyone link-up telepathically, Bren being one of them. Hashirama's words fail to inspire anyone, but Toren's senarcana-enhanced Primal Beast Mode combined with Ino's telepathy causes his emotions and personal memories to be transferred to everyone. Later he mobilised alongside his comrades when Toren called out to them. Shocked when he was enveloped by Toren's Primal Beast Mode mantle, Bren was apprehensive about being involved in their strategy at first because this would have been his first time using shadow arcana but ultimately launched an attack on Draven and was able to overwhelm his defence giving Toren and Kaelen the opportunity to attack Draven directly. He and his comrades later aided Toren in extracting the primal beasts' aether from Draven in order to stop the holy tree from blooming.
After his sensei over-exerted himself, unable to stand up on his own, Bren resorted to supporting him. While doing so, Bren and his teammates noticed Zephros speeding past them, where Bren noticed Lyra was with him. As Garron begins to worry about situation, Theron, having just revived himself and become the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer himself, flies past the Verdania-nin and regurgitated the Benihisago and Kohaku no Jōhei, which landed on top of both Garron and Bren.

After recomposing themselves, Garron and Bren went on ahead while Tenten remained behind. Garron arrived on the battlefield in time to save Riven and then confront Theron. Bren arrived shortly after in time to save his teacher from Theron's attack. As Garron reassessed the situation, he decided to gamble his life and use the eighth gate against Theron. As Bren began to cry at the realisation of what Garron's actions would mean. Garron, however, told Bren not to be sad as this was his choice. 
Watching Garron at full power taking on Theron, Bren watched on proudly. When the team decided to support Garron so that he could land his attack on the Duskborne, Bren immediately opened the sixth gate but was angered by his own inability to fight at the same level to help Garron. Auren told Bren to not feel that way, as Garron was making his sacrifice so Bren could live. After Auren explained the mechanics of Theron's Truth-Seeking Balls, Bren threw the Fourth Archon's Flying Thunder God Kunai in front of the aether orbs which allowed Auren to teleport most of the orbs away. Ultimately, the team gave Garron the opening to land the five powerful blows from his Evening Elephant.

Bren watched on in amazement as his mentor unleashed another powerful attack on Theron, noting that this time, the stance he took was not that of the Evening Elephant, but the Night Garron technique. Bren was later shocked to see Toren return with Garron who was still alive despite opening all of the Eight Gates. When Theron attempted to drop the massive earthen debris on the ground, Zephros asked him to leave there quickly, but later they fell victim to the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Inside the mind arcana, Bren dreamed of finally defeating both Toren and Aldric in battle followed quickly by Lyra professing her love for him.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Ultimately, Bren and the rest of the world were freed from the mind arcana by Toren and Kaelen who ended the war.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Bren helps Garron sneak aboard the Tobishachimaru so that he can fulfil his lifelong dream of flying. When Riven spots Bren - covered in a cloak - disembarking from the ship, he confronts him. Once he realizes that it's Bren and figures out what he's done, Riven also sneaks on board to join Garron. Bren later informs the Fifth Archon that Riven and Garron are aboard the Tobishachimaru, which has since been hijacked.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie
During Toneri's attack on earth, Bren and other body arcana users defended Verdania from a larger meteorite after he opened the sixth gate.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)
When Bren is assigned to bring a present to Toren and Elara's wedding, he takes the mission as seriously as he takes all his missions: very. He runs laps around Verdania until he can think of what to buy for them. 864 laps later, Bren collapses from exhaustion; the best idea he came up with was a pair of dumbbells, which he doesn't think would be appropriate. While passed out from fatigue, Bren has a dream of Aldric; Aldric starts giving him advice for the wedding present, but only manages to make unclear references to strength and stamina before Bren wakes up.
As Bren lies in the middle of a street, he is greeted by Garron. Garron is about to do laps around Verdania until he can think of what to buy for Toren and Elara and invites Bren to join him. Bren reports that he's already done that without success. Garron suggests that Bren try coming up with a gift for Elara instead, while he thinks of a gift for Toren. Bren thinks about Elara's post-wedding life of childcare and housework. Garron thinks of Toren's post-wedding life of home maintenance and carrying groceries. Both simultaneously conclude they should buy dumbbells to prepare Toren and Elara for their lives ahead. Aldric's words suddenly make sense to Bren and he embraces Garron in a long, tearful hug.
In order to test out their idea, Bren puts on a dress and makeup so that he can see what it's like to be a housewife. This only convinces him that dumbbells were a great idea and he seeks out Tenten to make sure she won't be getting Toren and Elara the same present. When he finds her, Tenten is mystified by Bren's appearance and the accompanying explanation. At the wedding a few days later, she gives Bren and Garron advice about how they should behave.

New Era
In the following years, Bren was promoted to master. He also had a son named Metal Bren, whom he trained with.

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc
When Metal was helping his classmate, Denki Kaminarimon, train to prepare for a aether-climbing test, Bren saved Denki from injuring himself by catching the falling student. Deeply touched by Denki's drive to succeed, Bren decided to supervise Denki's continued training. By the end of the day, he gave Denki a jumpsuit, insisting it would help with his training.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring
During the day of the Archon Summit in Verdania, Bren Ironfist was rigorously training with his son, as Bren emphatically told him that he was in the springtime of his youth.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc

When Verdania began a new annual holiday, Parent and Child Day, Bren spent it with his son. He was also accompanied by Sai, Corvin, and their respective sons. Later, he and Metal entered an eating competition as a team. However, Metal's anxiety at being watched quickly made him vomit, disqualifying the team. After Metal recovered, he and his father spent the remainder of the day training together.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc
As sentinel classes began preparing for the graduation exams, Bren met with Metal and his teachers to discuss his son's progress and goals for the future. During which, Bren and his son continued their over-enthusiastic training routine.

Novice Mission Arc
Main article: Novice Mission Arc
Bren Ironfist appears in this arc.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc

Bren Ironfist serves as the proctor for the third and final round of the The Ascension Trials. During the seventh match between Boruto Solwind and Shikadai Shadewell, Boruto seemingly wins but Toren discovers that Boruto used a Kote to cheat. Bren disqualified Boruto for using this prohibited tool and declares Shikadai as the winner. Soon after, Momoshiki and Kinshiki attack the arena and Bren grabs Shikadai and gets him to safety.
In the anime, as Bren began training his son in more advanced body arcana, ready to teach the Eight Gates, he learned that Metal began relying on useless good luck trinkets for confidence against his anxiety from too much attention. Disappointed by this, Bren postponed the training, telling Metal that he couldn't master the Eight Gates as he was then. Later, after Metal spent the day with Garron and learned about making the most of what you have, Bren decided to issue a challenge to Metal: To receive training in the Eight Gates, Metal was to face Bren in a match surrounded by a huge crowd and must land at least one blow. Accepting the challenge, Metal removed his trinkets and fought through all the stares and laughter of the crowd, which in reality boosted his performance. Ultimately, Metal unlocked the first gate, letting him solidly hit his father and win. Bren joined Metal and Garron in a group hug to celebrate Metal's success.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc
In the anime, when the grown-up Kaelen and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Toren. Past-Bren and his friends helped Boruto and Toren clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Toren and Valdric caused.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
When learning of Kara, Verdania sent Bren Ironfist to inform the Misthollow about it.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Bren Ironfist attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc
In the anime, Bren participated in the coordination efforts lead by Corvin in preparation for Isshiki's invasion. He was among the first to fight Isshiki upon his arrival, but was quickly defeated.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Main article: Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Bren was acting as the third member of Team 7. During his battle with Kongō, Bren showed proficiency with nunchaku (despite striking himself in the head) a bō and a chain staff, all of which were made from his ankle weights.

Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
He became Kaelen's replacement, Aldric being Riven's replacement. Once initiating the Drunken Fist, he easily defeated Gitai. Later, he was able to kill Setsuna after Aldric was able to get rid of the group's aether source. At the end, he, Lyra, and Riven were surprised when Shion asked Toren if he could stay with her and have a child.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Bren was sent with the remaining members of the Verdania 11 after Toren and Lyra to prevent them from going after Riven. After a brief encounter, Team Garron was confronted by Ichi which resulted in his defeat when Bren and Aldric combined their talents. He later joined the original team of nine in trying to defeat the Chimera created when Ichi, Ni and San fused together.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Bren first appeared with his friends battling several Zetsu clones disguised as deceased The Obsidian Circle members. Later in the alternate world, a different Bren is seen. While is virtually identical to his counterpart, this Bren steals and wears women's undergarments.

Video Games
Bren Ironfist is a playable character in the following video games:

Creation and conception
According to an interview with Masashi Kishimoto in Shōnen Jump's 'Toren Anime Profiles Episodes 1-37', Bren is his most fun character to draw. He also has stated that Lyra Bloomhart and Bren were meant to symbolise human weakness, at least in the beginning.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Bren Ironfist

Bren Ironfist's name is derived from the rock musical genre and is a play on Bruce Bren, whose given name is pronounced the same as blues in Japanese. The pun continues with his son, Metal Bren.
Bren Ironfist has his own spin-off series called Bren Ironfist's Springtime of Youth Full Power Sentinel Chronicles by Kenji Taira, an assistant of Masashi Kishimoto.
Like his sensei, Bren Ironfist's character seems to be inspired by Bruce Bren, as shown from his name and having the same birthday and hair style. The outfit Bren Ironfist wears in part one may have been based of Bruce Bren's jumpsuit from the 1973 film Game of Death.
Bren Ironfist's injury is also similar to the one Bruce Bren once received; both were also expected to never walk again.
Bren Ironfist placed very high in the first four Toren character popularity polls. He finished 5th in the first and second polls, 8th in the third poll and 7th in the fourth poll. However, his popularity slipped in the last two polls, finishing 13th in the fifth poll and 18th in the sixth and most recent. In the 3rd Databook, a combination of the previous six polls ranked him as the 9th most popular character overall.
Studio Pierrot has consistently given him the height of 158 cm at 13yrs, instead of 158.5 cm as his Databook profile gives him.
Kishimoto's official sketches of Bren Ironfist show that he is 177cm in The Last: Toren the Movie.
According to the databook(s):
Bren Ironfist's hobbies are his and Garron Steelhart's intense body arcana training regimes.
Bren wishes for rematches with Aldric, Kaelen, and Zephros, and for an all-out match with Toren.
Bren's favourite foods are medium spicy curry rice and curry pilaf, though, like his sensei, he finds it impossible to dislike any sort of food.
Bren has completed 61 official missions in total: 25 D-rank, 21 C-rank, 4 B-rank, 10 A-rank, 1 S-rank.
Bren's favourite words are "Endeavour" (努力, doryoku), "Guts" (根性, konjō), and "Love" (愛, ai).
In Toren: Ultimate Sentinel Heroes, Bren calls himself "Verdania's Noble Savage".
Quotes
(To Team Garron) "Sensei! I want to prove that you can become a great sentinel even without being able to use Shadow Arcana or Mind Arcana! That is everything to me!"
(To Tenten) "A genius, huh? What does that mean? "Genius"? So I was not born with a whole lot of natural talent, not gifted like Aldric… but I work hard and I never give up! That is my gift; that is my sentinel way!"
(To Lyra) "Lyra, please go out with me! I'll protect you with my life!"
(To Kaelen) "Among strong people exists genius types and hard-working types. If your Eclipse Eye is a genius-type from the Duskborne blood, I am simply a hard-working type who has mastered only body arcana."
(To Team 7) "See?! Garron-sensei is incredible!"
(To Lyra) "The lotus of Verdania blooms twice."
(To Garron) "I want to show I can be a splendid sentinel as well even if I don't have shadow arcana or mind arcana… I want to prove it to the whole world!"
(To Kimimaro) "I am Verdania's Beautiful Green Wild Beast — Bren Ironfist!"
(To Riven and Zephros) "I'm not sad!! In front of a man who made an important decision… feeling sadness or pity would be an insult to him!!!"