Corvin Shadewell (奈良シカマル, Shadewell Corvin) is a sentinel of Verdania's Shadewell clan. Though lazy by nature, Corvin has a rare intellect that consistently allows him to prevail in combat. The responsibilities that these successes leave him with cause him frequent annoyance, but he gladly accepts them so that he may be of service to his fellow members of Team Asuma, and to prove himself to generations of the past and future. As an adult, he served as chief aide to Toren when he became the Seventh Archon, and took the title of Eighth Archon (八代目火影, Hachidaime Archon, literally meaning: Eighth Fire Shadow) on a provisional basis when Toren disappeared and was believed to have been killed. But when he realized his memories were altered, he secretly helps Toren's son, Boruto Solwind, in proving his innocence and regain everything that was taken from him.

Background

Corvin is the only child of Yoshino and Shikaku Shadewell. When he was young, he once played "sentinel" with other children his age. Chōji Boulderkin wanted to play with them, but the other children refused to allow him to do so, claiming he was too stupid and bad to participate. When Corvin couldn't convince the others to let Chōji join, he left the game and went to his favourite spot to watch clouds. Chōji happened to be sitting in the same spot when he got there, so Corvin introduced himself, and invited Chōji to watch the clouds with him. Chōji asked Corvin if he wanted some snacks. From that point onward they were best friends; upon entering Verdania's Sentinel Academy, they'd usually sit together in class and hang out afterwards. Corvin had very little interest in the class itself, preferring to spend his time sleeping rather than listen to Iruka Umino's lessons. Corvin showed the same lack of enthusiasm for the tests he was given and couldn't be bothered to actually answer the questions, leading to his poor grades.

Personality
Corvin is naturally a lazy person and his inclination is to do as little work as possible. As an Academy student and even during his early career as a novice, Corvin is able to get away with this, spending his days sleeping, watching the clouds, or playing games of shōgi and Go. Even when told by many that he could be a great Archon, he stated that he didn't want to deal with such responsibilities. His goal is to live unremarkably, free of anything of noticeably good or bad, and then to die just as unremarkably as he lived. When he is faced with the potential for conflict or commitment, he responds first by saying, "how troublesome," and then by trying to find some way out of it, either by pretending to be indisposed or even outright saying that he doesn't want to do whatever it is.
Although Corvin describes himself as "the number one coward", he has a strong moral compass and dedication to his friends. It is these qualities that earned Chōji Boulderkin's friendship, as Corvin was one of the first people to look past his weight and find value in who he naturally was. It is also these qualities that force Corvin to move away from his lazy pursuits, as he finds himself volunteering to do work or to sacrifice himself if it will in some way benefit his allies. Such selflessness, once displayed during the Verdania Crush, exacerbates his "troublesome" situations: he is given the responsibility of leading his friends into battle, for which reason he does everything that he can to keep them safe, for which reason he is given even more responsibility over even more of his friends, and so on. He still clings to his lazy origins as much as he can; even if he can't spend his entire day being idle, he at least avoids having long-term goals or confessing any particular pleasure in the duties he's assigned.
Corvin undergoes a rapid maturity after the death of his teacher, Asuma Embercrown, whose loss forces Corvin to recognise that the world is not safe, and that he cannot be kept protected from it forever. After avenging Asuma, Corvin takes it upon himself to do all that he can to make things better for future Verdania generations, especially Asuma's then-unborn daughter, Mirai; such is the Will of Fire. He may still balk at the prospect of the work he must do, but he no longer runs from it, even going so far as to argue in favour of difficult choices if it will guarantee his friends' and village's survival. In Corvin Hiden, he describes his new goal in life as, rather than living unremarkably himself and watching the clouds all the time, to instead make a world where his children or grandchildren can live that way if they choose to.

One of the more "troublesome" things that runs throughout Corvin's life is the subject of women thanks to his experiences with the women he knows: his mother, Yoshino, his teammate, Ino Mindthorn, and his frequent companion, Temari. He describes each of them as aggressive, demanding, and sometimes even scary. Corvin tries to treat women delicately, being non-confrontational or at least polite to them and never asking anything of them that he believes he can do himself. During Part I, he generally believes he can do anything himself, and as such is mortified if and when a woman needs to assist him in any way; his frustrations are similar when he repeatedly finds himself facing female opponents. Because his father, Shikaku, has similar views and experiences with women, Corvin asks him for help in understanding them. Shikaku explains that men destroy themselves without a woman's influence and that women, despite how they may act, are kind to the men they love. As with most things, Corvin resists entanglements with women as much as he can; his Infinite Tsukuyomi dream world sees him successfully avoiding marriage entirely. However, upon realising in Corvin Hiden that Temari is one of the most important things in the world to him, he ultimately marries her and even has a son with her, Shikadai. Ironically, his relationship with Temari became very similar to his parents, where he once mocked Shikaku for being "whipped", which he himself became.
Overtime, having come to recognise Toren's great contributions to the village despite his own hardships, Corvin came to sympathise for him, deciding to be there to support him much like the Second Archon did for his older brother. His newfound goal became to aid Toren in his goal of becoming Archon and act as his personal adviser. Ultimately, as an adult, Corvin succeeds in this goal, often handling many duties to lighten the workload for Toren as Archon. At the same time, he still holds much of his original carefree nature from youth. He is not very strict with his son, viewing his acting out and/or punishments at school as a learning curve for him, trusting that Shikadai will find his way. He is a man of conviction and drive, always pushing himself to protect his village. His mental fortitude is proven very strong, able to put some resistance against Ada's allure. In adulthood (in the manga), he also picked up Asuma's interest in smoking.
Per his role as Toren's adviser, Corvin possesses a more methodical and somewhat draconian viewpoint and mindset in regards to the safety of Verdania. Occasionally clashing with Toren's more humble and carefree outlook, Corvin often attempts to handle matters by considering anything or anyone mysterious or unknown as potential threats, such as suggesting Kawaki be placed under heavy supervision at all times when the latter first arrived in Verdania, to the point where Toren commented it felt like Corvin advocated for confinement. Likewise, when a potential war between Ironpeak with Misthollow against the Land of Flowers with Stormspire almost came to be, Corvin immediately threatened to kill both Kurotsuchi and Chōjūrō when they accused Verdania of secrecy and plotting, much to Toren's great displeasure and anger. Corvin even went as far as to order Mirai to allow Tentō Madoka to be kidnapped by the Mujina Bandits in order to place his father Ikkyū, the daimyō of the Realm of Embers, under Verdania's debt once they managed rescue him. Nevertheless he still continues to support Toren's decision regardless of his own option.
After being affected by Ada's Omnipotence and having his memories of Boruto and Kawaki switched, like most of the rest of the world, Corvin grew to hold a grudge and anger at Boruto for his false crime of killing Toren. Sarada and Sumire both also noticed that Corvin's personality had changed slightly, having become irreducible and more stubborn, especially when it came to giving Boruto the benefit of the doubt or lifting his execution order. This only relented when he received a report that Amado independently considered the possibility that his memories had been altered, and offered Boruto covert assistance. As Archon, Corvin was shown to prioritise even more the will of Verdania's citizens and their safety, since during Code's invasion, he gave priority to evacuating the civilians and protecting them from the Claw Grimes than trying to capture Boruto when the same appeared in the village.

Appearance

Corvin has narrow brown eyes and a typical expression suggesting he is either bored or irritated. He has shoulder length black hair tied in a spiky ponytail. During Part I, he wears a short-sleeved grey jacket with green-edged sleeves and the rudimentary Shadewell clan symbol on the back, under which is a green-lined mesh armour T-shirt. He also wears brown pants, a pair of his clan's traditional silver hoop earrings, and wears his blue forehead protector around his left arm. When he becomes a adept, he adds a flak jacket over this usual clothing. In Part II, he trades most of his personalised wardrobe for the standard Verdania-nin outfit, the only customisations being green-lined mesh armour on his wrists and ankles and the plate of his forehead protector sewn into his left sleeve. He also replaces the hoop earrings for studs, a gift from Asuma Embercrown.

In The Last: Toren the Movie, Corvin's attire remains largely the same as in Part II, with the flak jacket being updated with Verdania's new design. He also wears taller sandals that reach more past his calves. In adulthood, Corvin finally abandons the normal infantry's attire, instead wearing a cream-coloured coat and black pants very similar to what his father, Shikaku, used to wear. He also grows a short goatee and wears brown gloves while no longer having the earrings or studs in his ears. He also has a necklace that he wears, one that appears to be an enlarged size of the earrings or studs he wore during his time as a master. Overall, he is noted to greatly resemble his father.
Three years after Boruto left Verdania, Corvin wore a dark, button-down shirt with a turtleneck and light pants. As the Eighth Archon, similar to Toren during his reign, Corvin wears a light cape with high collars that has a dark flame pattern around the hem, held together by a rope.

Abilities

Despite his poor grades in Academy, Corvin's potential quickly showed itself, as demonstrated when he was the only member of his graduating class to become a adept during Part I. Despite being a newly made adept, he could hold his own against master-level opponents like Tayuya of the Sound Four. In Part II, he could defeat Hidan of The Obsidian Circle after leading the latter to a trap. His skills led to him being offered a position as one of the Twelve Guardian Sentinel in the anime, being made deputy-commander of the Fourth Division and chief-strategist of the entire Allied Sentinel Forces, as well as the right-hand man of the Seventh Archon years later. 
For years, since childhood, he has been regarded as worthy of being the Archon, and ultimately became selected as the Eighth Archon, thereby being recognised as one of Verdania's greatest sentinel.

Physical Prowess
Despite being an individual more focused on strategy and long-range combat, Corvin is not physically incapable. During the The Great Convergence War, he was able to react and kick away a Zetsu clone while controlling Ino Mindthorn. Even as an adult, he quickly dodged a kick from Delta.

Shadow Arcana
Corvin's nature transformations include Yin Release, which he commonly uses to perform his hiden techniques, as well as Fire and Earth Release. In the anime, he has shown to be able to use fūinarcana, as seen when he tried to seal Kakuzu's lightning technique into a scroll, and when he unsealed water from a scroll to use as a medium to electrocute Kakuzu. He is also able to use the Flying Swallow, and can create clones of himself, either by flowing aether into his shadow and shape them, or by using the Phantom Double Technique.

Shadewell Clan Techniques

As a member of the Shadewell clan, Corvin is able to manipulate his own shadow. His signature move is the Shadow Imitation Technique, which in the anime he learned before even entering the Academy. By connecting his shadow to a target's, Corvin can use the Shadow Imitation Technique to restrain their movements and force them to mimic his own. When used against opponents, they may be able to resist his control, requiring that Corvin exert additional effort to keep them bound; when used for whatever reason on allies or others who have been incapacitated, no resistance occurs and the process is accordingly much easier. Throughout Parts I and II, Corvin must perform the appropriate hand seals in order to use his shadow, but in later years, he is able to manipulate it without them. By adulthood, his speed and strength with the technique allowed him to capture the Five Archon and their bodyguards before they could react, with only the Archon having the capabilities to free himself. As such, he had the opportunity to kill them if he chose to. However, he later realised that his skills had became quite rusty due to long term of office duty, when he failed to crush a tree trunk. He could even restrain the Ōtsutsuki duo of Momoshiki and Kinshiki, which required Momoshiki himself absorbing the technique in order to free themselves. He can also immobilize Kara members such as a restrained Code, as well as Ada, despite her enchantment ability preventing most harm against her.

After he becomes a adept, Corvin is taught the Shadow–Neck Binding Technique, which allows him to use his shadow to strangle those who have been bound with the Shadow Imitation. Like the Shadow Imitation itself, the Shadow–Neck Binding can only be used on flat surfaces, for which reason opponents can resist it if they're strong enough. In Part II, Corvin is able to use his shadow independently off surfaces, using his shadows to pierce targets and pick up giant things. He could even channel his aether into his late mentor's aether blades to pierce a target's shadow and bind them from a distance. By adulthood, Corvin's prowess with his clan techniques enabled him to perform them without hand seals.

Intelligence

After Corvin was assigned to Team 10, Asuma noticed that Corvin was much sharper than his Academy scores indicated. By disguising a number of intelligence tests as games and puzzles – the only way Asuma could get Corvin to be interested – Asuma discovered that Corvin has an IQ of over 200; his poor grades were because he was too lazy to take any of the written exams. By the time he was 15, he was already considered the most intelligent person in Verdania, and it is chiefly because of his intelligence that Corvin receives as many responsibilities as he does and why the Fifth Archon routinely pushes Corvin to use his intellect for his allies' and village's benefit, such as his position as Adept Exam Examiner, showing the trust he had from Verdania's administration, high-ranking amongst even other adept. Indeed, the Archon's faith in him is well-founded, as Corvin remains acutely aware of his own and others' limitations, allowing him to avoid surprise and unnecessary risk. By the time of Boruto: Toren the Movie, he continued to be regarded as the smartest person in Verdania.

Whether he is about to go into combat, issuing orders to those who are in combat, or is personally involved in combat himself, Corvin's general approach is the same: he remains aware of all actions that allies and opponents make, even things that seem insignificant at the time or that he doesn't yet understand; he keeps track of where everything is located in relation to everything else, even features that lack obvious practical use; he studies the behaviour of all combatants, gradually learning how they react in any given situation. By then focusing on this vast amount of information – which he usually does by closing his eyes and cupping his fingers – Corvin can quickly think ten moves ahead of his opponent(s) and devise over a hundred strategies, from which he instantly picks the most effective. Such strategies are often highly elaborate and use multiple layers of misdirection, where he takes small victories just to eliminate extraneous factors, pretends defeat in order to re-position opponents, and engineers conditions that will lead opponents to defeating themselves. Tobi regrets that Corvin's ability to see through deception and correctly put together seemingly unrelated pieces of information is "wasted" in service to the Allied Sentinel Forces. Later in adulthood, Corvin proved to be an adept teacher, having personally trained Mirai Embercrown into a powerful sentinel and teaching her all the techniques of her late-father, Asuma.

Stats

Part I
Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves
Upon graduating from the Academy, Corvin is added to Asuma Embercrown's Team 10, along with Chōji Boulderkin and Ino Mindthorn. In the anime, Corvin is surprised that Toren Solwind also graduated since Toren failed their in-class graduation exam.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials
Despite how recently they graduated from the Academy, Asuma enters Team 10 in the The Ascension Trials being held in Verdania. Corvin agrees to participate, but nevertheless complains repeatedly about the competition with the many other participating novice, especially his fellow recent graduates: the members of Team 7 and Team 8. For the first stage of the exams, they are given a written test with ten questions too difficult for the standard novice to be able to answer, and for which reason participants are expected to cheat without getting caught. Ino uses her Mind Body Switch Technique on Corvin to fill out his exam sheet with answers she copied from Lyra Bloomhart; in the anime, Corvin is glad for Ino's intervention, as he didn't want to bother answering the questions on his own. Team 10 ultimately passes.

For the second stage of the exams, Team 10 enters the Forest of Death to take part in a five-day survival exercise. Team 10 initially spends their time avoiding conflict, hiding whenever they come across another team. When they discover Lyra defending her teammates from a team of Oto-nin by herself, Corvin asks Ino if they should help her. Ino decides to, and Corvin drags Chōji along to provide additional support. Team 10 initiates Formation Ino–Shika–Chō: Chōji attacks Zaku Abumi with Human Bullet Tank, Corvin immobilises Dosu Kinuta with his Shadow Imitation Technique, and Ino uses her Mind Body Switch on Kin Tsuchi. Ino tries to use Kin as a hostage, but Zaku opts to attack Kin himself rather than let her be used against him. Too tired to offer much more of a fight, Team 10 wonders what to do. When Kaelen regains consciousness, Corvin has them withdraw, sensing that Kaelen can deal with the Oto-nin on his own.

After passing the second stage, the remaining novice take part in one-on-one preliminary matches. Corvin, to his annoyance, is matched against Kin, who uses bells tied with strings to distract Corvin, giving her an opening to attack him with senbon; in the anime, the bells also produce a mind arcana, further disorienting Corvin. Corvin alters his shadow's shape and directs it to Kin under the cover of the strings she's holding on to, allowing him to ensnare her without her notice. After revealing his technique, he takes a star blade from his holster and throws it, forcing Kin to do the same. Corvin dodges Kin's star blade by bending backwards, forcing her to dodge his star blade in the same way. Upon doing this, Kin knocks her head against the wall behind her, rendering her unconscious, ensuring Corvin's victory. When the preliminaries conclude, Corvin and the other finalists are informed who their first opponents will be when they reconvene after a month of rest and training. Because there are an odd number of finalists, Corvin is scheduled to fight Dosu in an additional match.
Corvin is frustrated that he'll need to do additional work if he's to win the tournament. From listening to the Third Archon's explanation about how the finals will be handled, Corvin speculates that one doesn't need to actually win the tournament in order to be promoted to adept, which the Third confirms when Corvin asks him: novice are promoted based on performance, not wins or losses. After they disperse, Chōji overeats in an effort to console himself for losing his preliminary match, sending him to the Verdania Hospital. While Corvin is visiting him there the day before the finals, he also visits Toren, who is recovering from his training. As Corvin and Toren are talking, they notice Zephros entering Bren Ironfist's room, intent on killing him. Corvin stops him with his shadow and tries to convince Zephros to leave by pointing out that he and Toren outnumber him, but Zephros isn't deterred. After telling them a little about his childhood, Zephros prepares to kill them, his sand not being inhibited by Corvin's shadow. Garron Steelhart arrives before he can do anything to them and forces Zephros to leave.
When the finalists gather the next day, Corvin is informed that his match with Dosu has been cancelled and that he'll instead be fighting Temari of Suna in his first match. When it's time for his fight, he contemplates forfeiting, but Toren wrongly assumes he's eager to get started and shoves him into the arena. Temari attacks him when he's slow to get up, but he dodges at the last moment, deciding he doesn't want to lose to a girl. Corvin retreats to the cover of some nearby trees and uses the threat of his shadow to force Temari to keep her distance. While she ascertains his shadow's maximum reach, Corvin formulates a strategy, doing so quickly enough to be ready when Temari attacks from afar with her Giant Folding Fan. He takes shelter behind the trees and strikes out with his shadow again, extending farther towards her than before, the setting sun lengthening his shadow's range.

Temari dodges this and his other attempts to let his shadow reach farther, forcing her to repeatedly move away from him to avoid it. She attempts to finish the fight quickly, expecting things will only become easier for Corvin as the fight goes on, when she finds herself already caught: Corvin has been manoeuvreing her towards a hole in the ground created during Toren's earlier match, which allowed him to catch her with his shadow from underground, capturing her from behind. Corvin approaches Temari, apparently to deliver a finishing blow. He forfeits instead, claiming that, even if he won this match, he's spent too much aether to be able to safely fight in later matches. The observing older sentinel are impressed by the wisdom of this decision, but Toren is upset and enters the arena to accuse Corvin of stupidity.
When Kaelen arrives in the arena for his match with Zephros, Corvin and Toren head back to the stands to spectate. They cross paths with Zephros moments after he murders two Kusa-nin and are paralysed by the realisation that he would have killed them had the Kusa-nin not been there. Toren becomes fearful of what Zephros will do to Kaelen and runs off to cancel the match. When Corvin catches up, he's amused to see that Toren's concern for Kaelen's safety has suddenly become jealousy for Kaelen's improved abilities.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush
Kaelen and Zephros's match is interrupted by an invasion of Verdania and a mind arcana puts most of the spectators to sleep. Corvin is able to dispel the mind arcana, but he still pretends to be asleep anyway so that nobody will bother him. This is discovered by Lyra when she comes to wake up him and Toren, and Pakkun forces him to get up by biting his ankle. Having overheard Riven Ashveil's instructions for the four of them to stop Kaelen from pursuing Zephros, Corvin flatly refuses, prompting Pakkun to bite his hand until he agrees. As they head away from the stadium, Pakkun informs them that they're being followed by nine Oto-nin. Because they're outnumbered and because none of them are particularly good fighters, Corvin explains that their best option is to lay an ambush, a task he volunteers for while the others continue to follow Kaelen.

Corvin creates false tracks to lead the Oto-nin onto a different trail, and the captures them with his shadow once they're near him. Corvin notices that he's only captured eight Oto-nin and hypothesises that the ninth kept his distance in case of an ambush. Corvin tests his theory by throwing star blade at the eight, forcing the ninth to reveal his location in order to block the star blade. Corvin can't reach the ninth with his shadow and in fact is about to lose his bind on the other eight, but holds them for as long as he can. Once he's forced to release them he prepares to be killed, but is saved by Asuma, who has dealt with the ninth Oto-nin and quickly defeats the others. Asuma congratulates Corvin for his good work and tells him to rest.
A few days later, after the invasion has been repelled, Corvin attends the Third Archon's funeral.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Even though the The Ascension Trials were interrupted and even though he lost his match, Corvin's performance was enough to earn him a promotion to adept, as the only candidate promoted that exam. Team 10 goes to Yakiniku Q to celebrate, after which Corvin trains with his father, Shikaku. Although Shikaku wants to resume the training early the next morning, Corvin is summoned before Maelis, the new Archon. She informs him that Kaelen has defected from Verdania in order to join with Vexaris, the man behind the invasion of Verdania. Corvin notes that a team of adept and master should be sent after Kaelen, but Maelis explains that this is impossible, the village being too understaffed in the aftermath of Vexaris's invasion. The only Kaelen Recovery Team she can allow is one led by Corvin and consisting of any novice he sees fit to recruit in half-an-hour. Maelis recommends Toren's inclusion and Corvin insists on also including Chōji; Kiba Fangcrest and Aldric Moonvane are likewise recruited.

After leaving the village, the Recovery Team comes across Kaelen's escorts, the Sound Four. Corvin has Aldric scout the area and then has him loudly report Kaelen's presumed location: within a coffin the Sound Four are carrying. The Sound Four hear this and, when they attack, Corvin takes the opportunity to capture the four of them with his shadow. He didn't count on the presence of a fifth member, however, who attacks him and forces him to release them. Jirōbō then captures them with his Earth Prison Dome of Magnificent Nothingness. Kiba uses Fang Passing Fang in an attempt to break free, but the prison only heals the damage. Corvin notices that the damage heals more slowly in one area, and by engaging Jirōbō in conversation Corvin confirms that it's the point farthest from him. He has Chōji attack that area and they successfully escape.
Jirōbō will need to be distracted if they're to continue pursuing the rest of the Sound Four. Corvin volunteers, but Chōji insists on being given the responsibility, promising to defeat Jirōbō. Corvin agrees on the condition that Chōji catch up with them after he's won; Corvin makes a point to mark their route as they go for Chōji to follow. He realises, however, that it may become necessary for each of them to fight a member of the Sound Four alone like Chōji is doing, and warns the others to be prepared for this. When they catch up with the Sound Four, Kidōmaru tries to delay them and Aldric remains behind to fight Kidōmaru. When they catch up again with Sakon and Tayuya, they try to use their superior numbers to their advantage; although they do succeed in taking Kaelen from them, Kaelen is quickly taken back by the Sound Four's backup, Kimimaro. Kiba and Sakon end up being separated from their respective teams and Toren goes after Kimimaro to retrieve Kaelen, leaving Corvin to fight Tayuya.
Tayuya berates Corvin for systematically sacrificing all the members of his team in order to rescue Kaelen, but Corvin rebuts that, as team leader, he has faith in each of them. She summons her three ogres and uses her Demonic Flute to control their attacks against him. The ogres' attacks are so well coordinated that Corvin has no opportunity to use any of his arcana. He tries finding a pattern in the music Tayuya plays to try an predict their movements, but the music changes too often for him to pick out anything. By instead studying her finger positions, he learns to predict the ogres' actions. When they move into the correct position, Corvin uses a flash bomb to extend the ogres' shadows, allowing him to capture them and control them against Tayuya. She de-summons them before he can do that, but once they're gone she discovers the ogres' entire capture was a distraction: she has been bound by Corvin's shadow, having been slowly navigated towards her.

Tayuya is able to resist his shadow's bindings by activating her cursed seal. Corvin tries strengthening his hold on her with his newly-learned Shadow–Neck Binding Technique, but he can't make its grasp strong enough. He releases her and allows himself to fall victim to the mind arcana she casts with her flute. When she comes near him to finish him off with a throwing blade (which he left for her), he releases himself from the mind arcana by breaking his own finger and traps her with his shadow again, using her closer proximity to improve his shadow's hold. Her cursed seal still makes her strong enough to resist it, so he keeps her bound until he runs out of aether. Tayuya is stopped from killing Corvin by the arrival of Temari, Suna's assistance having been requested by Maelis. Temari quickly destroys Tayuya's flute, forcing her to retreat into the forest. Corvin starts musing about how they might go about either finding her or drawing her out, which Temari ignores, instead simply destroying the forest. Tayuya is crushed beneath the fallen trees and Corvin, though intimidated by Temari's ferocity, is nevertheless thankful to her.

Temari accompanies Corvin back to Verdania. His broken finger is healed and Corvin is informed of the dire conditions the rest of his team has been left in. That things went so badly on his first mission causes Corvin to believe he's unfit to be a sentinel, much less to lead a team. Temari won't comfort him, nor will Shikaku when he comes to check on things. Shikaku reminds Corvin that his friends will continue to go on missions with or without him, but that maybe they'll avoid death if Corvin leads them then. If this mission went badly, Corvin should learn from it and improve so that future missions will be more successful. Maelis interrupts with news that the team will make full recoveries, that Toren has been found alive, and that Kaelen escaped. Although this means the mission failed, both Maelis and Corvin are glad that everyone survived, Corvin even tearfully vowing to do better next time.
Temari and her brothers later return to Suna, and Corvin sees them off. He wishes them a safe journey and thanks them again. Before they go, Temari teases Corvin to call if he needs their help again.

Mizuki Tracking Mission
Main article: Mizuki Tracking Mission
In the anime, Team 10 helps Toren round up escaped prisoners from the Verdania Strict Correctional Facility. They use their Formation Ino–Shika–Chō to restrain the Legendary Stupid Brothers until Maelis can arrive to defeat them.

Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
Main article: Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
In the anime, Corvin leads the Verdania 11 in stopping Gennō from destroying Verdania. Corvin proves to be a shrewd detective, quickly catching onto seemingly minor clues and predicting Gennō's plans. In the end, Gennō decides not to destroy the village, instead having fun letting the Verdania 11, Toren in particular, figure out what he's up to before he dies of a pre-existing illness.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
In the anime, Corvin leads the Verdania 11 in helping Suna stop the Four Celestial Symbols Men, repayment for their help to the Kaelen Recovery Team. The Verdania 11 splits up once they reach Suna, with Corvin reaching Temari in time to save her from Kujaku. Together they defeat Kujaku. Temari and the other Suna-nin rest in Verdania after the Four Celestial Symbols Men are defeated, and when they're ready to leave Corvin sees them off once again.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, about two years after Toren leaves Verdania to train, Corvin helps Maelis coordinate with Suna to hold a joint Adept Exam, what has the potential to be both a sign of solidarity between their villages and also a way to potentially draw out The Obsidian Circle. Zephros, Suna's new Sand Archon, agrees with Maelis's plans. Because only three-man teams can participate and because Corvin is already a adept, Corvin's position in Team 10 is temporarily filled by Lyra.

Corvin proctors the first stage of the exams: a written test where participating teams must get a combined score of 100 points despite being seated in different rooms. To pass, teams must find some way to communicate and use teamwork to get the correct score. Towards the end of the first stage, Corvin offers a bonus question: if each team can decide upon a team member to disqualify, the rest of the team will be allowed to pass to the second stage. This is a ruse, and the only acceptable answer is for teams to elect to disqualify nobody. Corvin congratulates those who pass this first stage and hands them off to Temari, the proctor of the second stage.
The exams are forced to be cancelled during the second stage and the Sand Archon consults Corvin about what to do. It's decided that performance reports on all remaining participants will be sent to their respective villages to decide who will be promoted to adept. Corvin later helps Maelis pick who to promote.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission
When Toren returns to Verdania after two-and-a-half years of training, he runs into Corvin and Temari. Seeing them together, he asks if they're on a date. Both deny this, instead explaining that they're working together to plan another Adept Exam. Corvin asks if Toren will participate since he's the only person from their graduating class who is still a novice. Toren is devastated by everyone's promotions.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Toren tracks down Corvin to ask for his help in potentially finding Kaelen again. Corvin can't, once again telling Toren that he's helping arrange the The Ascension Trials. Chōji offers to help Toren, though Corvin shares his doubts that Asuma will allow it. While they're discussing this, they are attacked by Sai's Super Beast Imitating Drawings. Corvin uses his Shadow Sewing Technique to destroy Sai's drawings while Toren gets close. Corvin then tries to catch Sai with his shadow, but he's able to escape.
Later, Corvin along with Team 10 visit Riven in the hospital following his mission at Duneholm, where he meets up with Team 7, including Sai, whom Corvin remembers and proceeds to snarl at him. Later, once Teams 7 and 10 are having lunch together, Corvin returns to Riven's hospital room and overhears Riven and Asuma discussing the The Obsidian Circle targeting Toren, where Corvin also shares his worries and becomes concerned once Riven says that at his current level, Toren wouldn't be able to defend himself.

Twelve Guardian Sentinel
Main articles: Twelve Guardian Sentinel (Arc) and Twelve Guardian Sentinel
In the anime, when Verdania is attacked by Furido's 4-Man Team, Maelis puts Corvin in charge of Verdania's defence. Corvin is frustrated that he can't join his friends on the front-lines, believing that is where the strategist is most needed and most effective. Corvin eventually defies orders and does just that, and in doing so the Earth Release Resurrection Technique: Corpse Soil is repelled. When Sora later rampages through the village, Corvin tries to restrain him with his shadow, but this fails and he must leave Sora's defeat to Toren.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission

Corvin plays shōgi with Asuma, but is surprised by Asuma's suddenly more offensive and reckless playstyle. Asuma explains that he's learned the importance of protecting the king, even if it means making sacrifices. Using shōgi as a metaphor, Asuma says that Corvin is like a knight while he's like a basic pawn. Corvin guesses that the king is like the Archon, which Asuma disagrees with, though he refuses to elaborate. They are both later assigned to one of the Twenty Platoons, a taskforce assigned to hunt down The Obsidian Circle members within the Realm of Embers. As their platoon searches the countryside for a lead as to the location of two The Obsidian Circle members that earlier attacked the Fire Temple, Corvin questions Asuma on his continuing strange behaviour, specifically that he's stopped smoking. Asuma once again avoids the question, instead reminding them to be ready for the The Obsidian Circle members' undoubtedly formidable abilities.
On reaching the bounty station, they find Hidan waiting outside. Asuma distracts him while Corvin retrains him with his shadow, allowing Izumo Kamizuki and Kotetsu Hagane to stab him with their swords. To their surprise, Hidan survives their attack. Hidan's partner, Kakuzu, then appears and attacks Corvin, forcing him to release Hidan. Their platoon regroups and Asuma instructs Corvin to try and restrain Hidan with his Shadow Sewing Technique while he fights him along, planning to decapitate him once he's captured. Corvin objects to the inherent risk of the plan, but goes along with it at Asuma's insistence. Hidan evades Corvin's shadow and Asuma's strikes, in the process managing to scratch Asuma's cheek with his Triple-Bladed Scythe. After licking Asuma's blood from the scythe and entering a symbol he drew on the ground earlier, Hidan links himself with Asuma, causing any damage he receives to also be done to Asuma.

Hidan tries to take advantage of his link with Asuma to stab himself in the heart, relying on his own immorality to survive while Asuma dies. Corvin stops him with his shadow and, having picked up on how his ability works, forces Hidan to leave the symbol on the ground, thus breaking the link. Now free to attack Hidan again, Asuma cuts his head off. Hidan once again survives and he calls on Kakuzu to sew his head back onto his body. Asuma, Izumo, and Kotetsu try to stop Kakuzu from doing so while Corvin, exhausted from the effort it took to move Hidan out of the circle, can only watch. They fail, Hidan's head is reattached, and he returns to the symbol, reestablishing the link. Despite Corvin's attempts to reach in time to stop him, Hidan is able to himself in the heart.

Asuma keels over just as another of the Twenty Platoons – one which includes Chōji and Ino – arrives to provide backup. Hidan and Kakuzu retreat, giving Ino a chance to try to heal the damage to Asuma's body. Aware that his wounds are too severe to heal, Asuma gives parting words to his students: to Corvin, he whispers the identity of the king they spoke about earlier. As his last act, Asuma requests that Corvin give him a cigarette, but he dies before Corvin can light it. Corvin lights the cigarette and smokes it himself, blaming the smoke for his tears. They return to Verdania to report what's happened, with Corvin taking responsibility for informing Kurenai Yūhi about Asuma's death. Corvin does not attend Asuma's funeral, instead spending his time thinking over cigarettes, practising with Asuma's aether blades, and planning his revenge.
Once he's got everything ready, Corvin sets out with Chōji and Ino to hunt down Hidan and Kakuzu. Maelis tries to persuade them not to go, but they are all confident in what they plan to do. She tries to hold them back on the grounds that they need a fourth member, at which point Riven Ashveil appears and volunteers to be their fourth. Maelis finally relents and Corvin quickly modifies his plan to take advantage of Riven's skills. Once Ino locates Hidan and Kakuzu, Corvin launches the first attack, striking at them multiple times until he is able to pin their shadows using Asuma's aether blades. Corvin uses his shadow to force Hidan to attack Kakuzu, but Kakuzu frees himself in time to dodge. Corvin continues using Hidan to attack Kakuzu and with Chōji's help manoeuvres Kakuzu into position for Riven to attack him with his Lightning Cutter.

Although Riven pierced Kakuzu's heart, Kakuzu has four spares, one of which he uses to save himself. He kicks Riven away and joins Hidan, who Corvin was forced to release. Hidan attacks Corvin and the others with his scythe while Kakuzu uses his extra hearts' natures to attack from a distance, overwhelming them. Corvin decides that Hidan and Kakuzu will need to be separated if they're to be defeated and volunteers to deal with Hidan alone. Despite Hidan's attempt to use the experience gained from his many previous captures to avoid Corvin's shadow, he is captured yet again and led away. Once deep enough into the forest, Corvin surrounds themselves with explosive tags so that Hidan won't be able under any circumstances. Once Corvin is forced to release him, Hidan strikes, acquires some blood to create a link with, and stabs himself in the heart.

The blood that Hidan acquired was actually Kakuzu's, which Riven collected earlier when he used Lightning Cutter. Hidan's link was therefore to Kakuzu and he has thus destroyed one of Kakuzu's hearts. Hidan doesn't realise this and assumes Corvin is dead, allowing Corvin to attack him from behind in an effort to cut off his head. Hidan notices in time to keep his head attached, but Corvin once again catches him with his shadow. He uses his shadow to attach all the surrounding explosive tags to Hidan and then activates a mark he set earlier, which causes the ground beneath Hidan to collapse into a pit. Realising what Corvin intends to do, Hidan vows to dig himself out and come after Corvin. Corvin doubts this, explaining that the surrounding forest belongs to the Shadewell clan, and that only they can enter and leave it. He ignites the explosive tags with one of Asuma's cigarettes (Asuma's lighter in the anime), blowing Hidan up. Hidan's still-speaking remains fall into the pit, which Corvin buries with a final explosive tag.
Kakuzu is defeated by the time Corvin makes it back to the other and they return to Verdania to report their success to Maelis. Corvin visits Asuma's grave afterwards and finds Kurenai there. As they reminisce about Asuma, Corvin vows to teach Asuma and Kurenai's unborn child just as Asuma taught him. He plays shōgi with Shikaku later and they discuss Asuma's earlier metaphor: Asuma believed the king was like the next generation, which Corvin now also believes. Shikaku is glad that he's learned this, and then proceeds to defeat Corvin so that he'll realise he's not yet ready for the responsibility of protecting it.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Maelis assigns Corvin to decipher Valdric's dying message about the identity of Pain, The Obsidian Circle's leader. He takes the message to the Verdania Cryptanalysis Team, but they can't decode it until they know what its key is, something that somebody close to Valdric might be able to find out. Maelis and Riven have no theories when he asks them, so Corvin visits Toren. Toren is depressed about Valdric's death and has difficulty focusing. He takes Toren to see Kurenai, who is well-along in her pregnancy, to illustrate the role that Corvin and Toren must someday be able to fill: being cool teachers to children like Kurenai's just as Asuma and Valdric were to each of them. This properly motivates Toren, who is able to find a clue that seems to point to Valdric's most recent book, Icha Icha Tactics. Riven uses his copy of the book to help them decode the message into, "The real one is not among them."

Corvin shares the message with Fukasaku, who was with Valdric when he died, but the message makes no sense without additional context. Corvin is forced to wait until the other investigations into Pain proceed further. Corvin discusses possible meanings with Lyra and Shiho a few days later, but they are interrupted by Pain's Assault and they disperse to join the village's defence. In the anime, Corvin immediately goes looking for Kurenai, finding her in time to save her from one of the Animal Path's giant centipedes. He helps her find an evacuation point out of the village before going to see what other help he can provide. Pain eventually destroys Verdania, which Corvin survives with only a broken leg; in the anime, he broke it while shielding Shiho from harm.
While Toren fights Pain alone, Corvin meets up with Shikaku, Ino, and Inoichi Mindthorn to pool their knowledge about Pain. With their combined information they hypothesise that Pain is actually being controlled remotely by someone, likely from the highest point near Verdania. Because of his leg, Corvin must stay behind while Shikaku and Inoichi go searching. Toren eventually defeats Pain and, upon his return to Verdania, Corvin joins in the celebration of his victory.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
In the anime, Corvin and Shiho sift through the rubble of Verdania and find some photos of villagers, which they try to reunite with their owners. Corvin and the rest of Team 10 later round up some hogs for the villagers to eat. The teamwork they demonstrate reminds Corvin of their mission to apprehend Baji.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

News reaches Verdania of Kaelen's recent activity with The Obsidian Circle, specifically his attack against Stormspire's sentinel. The members of Team 8, Team 10, and Team Garron decide that Kaelen can no longer be allowed to implicate Verdania in his criminal deeds and they resolve to personally kill him; Corvin volunteers to inform Toren and Lyra of their decision, still holding himself responsible for the Kaelen Retrieval mission falling. When he finds Lyra, he overhears Sai already expressing similar sentiments to Lyra and joins in with him, telling Lyra that it's their responsibility as Kaelen's former friends to stop him. Lyra eventually agrees and volunteers to be the one to tell Toren. When Toren returns to Verdania after learning of this and having his own confrontation with Kaelen, he meets with his fellow Verdania 11 and requests that they leave dealing with Kaelen to him.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
When the The Great Convergence War against The Obsidian Circle looms, Corvin is called to a council of Verdania's tacticians to discuss strategies for the coming war and any preparations that will need to be made. Shikaku notes that because he's so young, Corvin will need to take extra care to take in all the information that's brought up, which Corvin promises to do.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Verdania receives reports that Hidan's Triple-Bladed Scythe was stolen from the Shadewell Clan Forest and Corvin is sent to investigate. Corvin is later part of a force sent to Tonika Village to provide backup to Team 7.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat
In the anime, Corvin starts to feel the pressures of sending his friends to the war front. He is sent to Mokuzu Island to help ease his mind, where he meets with Toren. When they later try leaving the island, they get lost in the fog and caught in a whirlpool, which Corvin helps them navigate safely out of. Back in Verdania, Corvin is approached by Verdaniamaru Embercrown, who wants to enlist in the Allied Sentinel Forces, though Corvin refuses because Verdaniamaru doesn't know the identity of the king in shōgi. Verdaniamaru is frustrated by this and tries to prove himself in battle by fighting Temari, but Corvin forces him to stop. Verdaniamaru eventually realises what the king is and decides to find a better way for him to help the village.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

Corvin is assigned to the Allied Sentinel Forces' Fourth Division, the deputy to the division's leader, Zephros. Because Zephros is also in charge of the other four combat divisions, Temari informs Corvin that he is in effect the Fourth Division's leader. After the Allied Forces mobilise, the Fourth Division encounters several reincarnated Archon. Zephros requests backup from Allied HQ, but Shikaku and others there instead decide to send part of the Fourth Division – including Corvin – to provide backup to the First Division. As they near the First Division's location, Shikaku contacts Corvin, Chōji, and Ino and tells them about the first threat they'll need to deal with: Kinkaku, who possesses some of the Crimson Beast' aether. When they arrive, they use Formation Ino–Shika–Chō on Kinkaku, allowing his capture in the Kohaku no Jōhei.

After Kinkaku's defeat, Team 10 is immediately confronted by a reincarnated Kakuzu, who is interested in fighting them. Shikaku contacts them and instructs them to deal with another threat instead: a reincarnated Asuma. Although none of them want to fight Asuma, they, as his former students, are experts on his fighting style and thus the best-qualified to defeat him. When he notices their presence, Asuma congratulates them for their clear growth since he last saw them. They attack him and he's forced to counter, but he gives pointers about how to avoid his attacks and ultimately defeat him. Although Corvin and Ino are committed to the fight, Chōji has difficulty bringing himself to strike Asuma, to everyone's frustrations, Asuma's included. Chōji eventually manages to psych himself up and, once Corvin manoeuvres Asuma into position, punches him. Corvin restrains Asuma with his shadow while he's sealed away, but before that Asuma gives them new parting words: that he has nothing more to teach them since their teamwork is now perfect.

By nightfall, the First Division's battle appears won: all the reincarnated forces have been captured and all present elements of the White Zetsu Army have been defeated. When the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path suddenly appears on the battlefield and starts devastating the First Division, Corvin suspects that it's a distraction. He finds Tobi in the process of taking the captured Kinkaku and Ginkaku and, guessing that he plans to make use of their Crimson Beast' aether, restrains him with his shadow. Tobi compliments Corvin's perceptiveness and has the Demonic Statue attack him, but he's saved by Chōji. Tobi escapes, taking Kinkaku, Ginkaku, and the Demonic Statue with him.

The following day, a new threat emerges in the form of White Zetsus that have infiltrated the Allied Sentinel Forces. In the anime, the reincarnated Sound Four also attack the members of the former Kaelen Recovery Team. Because he can't be sure if any of his apparent allies are actually White Zetsus, Corvin fights Tayuya alone. Although her flute-based mind arcana is stronger than when he last fought her, Corvin's skills have also improved and he quickly defeats her with the Shadow Sewing Technique. Her defeat activates Space–Time Technique Formula: Underworld Turnover, separating the Recovery Team's souls from their bodies and trapping them within a barrier where they must fight the Sound Four until their real bodies eventually die. Aware that Toren has recently acquired the ability to sense negative emotions, Corvin provokes the Sound Four so that their anger will attract Toren to the barrier's location. Toren eventually finds them and breaks them free, restoring their souls to their bodies.
Toren goes through the Allied Forces, purging it of White Zetsus. Until he can arrive at their location, Corvin has all the Allies draw circles around themselves and not enter anyone else's. Chōji and Ino both complain, but he insists it's the safest method and that if they don't follow his instructions he'll regard them as hostiles. Toren eventually arrives and removes all the White Zetsus.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax
After being informed by Inoichi from HQ that Toren and B were fighting the "masked Theron", Corvin and the rest of the Verdania 11 rush to his aid. As he runs, he tells Chōji that he'd expect nothing short of Toren overdoing things on the battlefield and because of his short temper, he wasn't one to calmly think a plan through, so Toren should wait for him. After Corvin arrives on the battlefield Shikaku relays a plan of restraining the Ten-Tails to the assembled Allied Forces, but the plan is unsuccessful. The Ten-Tails' controllers, Tobi (real name Draven) and Theron Duskborne, are nevertheless concerned by Shikaku's strategies and have the Ten-Tails fire a Primal Beast Ball at the distant Allied HQ, where Shikaku is stationed. Before the HQ is destroyed, Shikaku relays a final attack plan to Corvin and adds that he, as new chief-strategist, will need to come up with a new one if it fails. Corvin thanks him for being such a good example to live up to before the communications are cut off with Shikaku's death.

Once empowered by Toren's version 1-like cloaks, the remaining Allied Forces enact Shikaku's last plan: a large-scale Formation Ino–Shika–Chō; Corvin and other members of the Shadewell clan hold the Ten-Tails' shadow while the rest of the Alliance attacks. The attack succeeds in removing the Ten-Tails from Draven and Theron's control. As a consequence, the Ten-Tails' attacks become more devastating and indiscriminate. When the Ten-Tails prepares to destroy the Allies with a Primal Beast Ball, Corvin has Ino use the Mind Body Transmission Technique to connect him with Kitsuchi and teach him a simple protective wall. Corvin then has Ino connect him to the rest of the Allies so that he can teach them this same arcana and use it to try and deflect the Primal Beast Ball. It breaks through all their defences, but is slowed enough for the reincarnated Fourth Archon to arrive in time to save them.

Kaelen Duskborne arrives shortly after the Fourth, claiming to now want to help protect Verdania by defeating the Ten-Tails. Corvin states that he's willing to accept Kaelen's assistance, but that he can't overlook Kaelen's past actions. With their whole graduating class together again, the members of Teams 7, 8, and 10 attack the Ten-Tails' minions. For Team 10's contribution, they use the Human Bullet Yo-Yo, wherein Corvin uses his shadow to grab Chōji and swing him through the Ten-Tails' forces that Ino senses for him. Their formation is quite successful, but does not compare to the amount of damage inflicted by Team 7's members. Despite Kaelen's contributions, some amongst them remain wary of him.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Draven eventually becomes the Ten-Tails beast-bearer, against whom only Toren, Kaelen, and the four reincarnated Archon can fight. Morale starts to sink because of this, so Corvin contacts the Alliance through Ino and encourages them to remain vigilant for any opportunity to contribute to the battle. When Draven prepares to destroy the Alliance with four Primal Beast Balls, Corvin curses his inability to come up with a plan of countering it. Toren and the Fourth Archon are able to teleport everyone to safety, but Draven only employs a different tactic: recreating the God Tree to feed off the aether of whatever Allies it comes into contact with. Corvin is one of the many to have his aether absorbed by the God Tree, but its roots are cut from him before he can be killed.

Even though he's saved, Corvin's lost enough aether to place his life in danger and he struggles to remain conscious. Lyra attempts to revive him, but it's not until the version 1 cloak from Toren – which was thought lost in one of the Ten-Tails' earlier attacks – reappears that Corvin starts to recover. Through Ino's link with the Alliance, Corvin's feelings about Toren are shared with everyone else: the inspiration that Toren brings to him; the painful childhood he wants to protect Toren from; the Archon position he wants to help Toren achieve. When Maelis arrives on the battlefield, she replenishes Corvin's aether so that he can rejoin the fight. He then helps Toren defeat Draven, first by joining the rest of the Verdania 11 in hitting Draven with one of Toren's Spiralstrike, and then by rallying the Allies to pull the primal beasts' aether from Draven's body.

Even with Draven defeated, other threats still remain: a final Zetsu begins overwhelming most of the Alliance, which they're all too weak to put up much fight against. Corvin regretfully notes that they must leave fighting the Zetsu up to the reincarnated Third Archon. While the Alliance continues fighting the Zetsu, Corvin notices Toren and Kaelen's distant fight with Theron Duskborne. When the Infinite Tsukuyomi is cast upon the world, Corvin alongside most people are immobilised by the mind arcana and restrained.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
In his dream, Corvin observes his parents' marriage and Asuma and Kurenai's, and decides marriage is too bothersome, which Temari agrees with. Toren and Kaelen eventually release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, freeing Corvin and the rest of the world and thus ending the The Great Convergence War.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
A year after the end of the war, Corvin is placed in charge of the Blood Prison, part of Verdania's obligation to provide security. When the Ryūha Armament Alliance hijacks the Tobishachimaru in order to ransom the release of their leader, Garyō, from the Blood Prison, Maelis contacts Corvin to discuss their options. They decide against caving to the Armament Alliance's demands and send reinforcements to the Blood Prison to prevent a potential prison break.
As the Tobishachimaru nears the Blood Prison, the Armament Alliance expels its passengers into the prison, each of whom are strapped with blue fire powder that detonates when the make landfall. Corvin instructs Verdania forces' to save the passengers before they're blown up and then has them start rounding up the prisoners escaping through the damaged outer walls. Corvin goes after Garyō, planning to capture him using his Shadow Imitation Technique, but discovers that Ino has already caught him using her Mind Body Switch Technique. They return to the Blood Prison and watch as the Tobishachimaru crashes nearby. Maelis wants Kahyō, the highest-ranking Armament Alliance member to survive the failed jailbreak, executed. Riven Ashveil suggests instead that she be made the prisons' new warden, thus releasing Verdania from its security obligations. Corvin sees merit in the idea and Maelis approves on the condition that Riven become the Sixth Archon. All agree.

Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Main articles: Corvin Hiden (novel) and Corvin Hiden (anime)

After the The Great Convergence War ended, Corvin became chief coordinator of the Sentinel Union, successor to the Allied Sentinel Forces. Two years after the war, the Sentinel Union has created an unprecedented peace, in no small part due to Corvin's tireless work. The amount of work he's been doing in fact bothers Corvin, as he's gotten quite far from his dream of spending his days doing nothing but watching the clouds. Just when he decides he doesn't want to any more responsibilities, he notices one of Sai's ink birds delivering a message to Riven and immediately goes to Riven's office to read the message. Both are bothered by what Sai says, such as his warning about Gengo, the charismatic leader of the Land of Silence, or reports that Sai's team of Anbu have all gone missing. What bothers them the most is that Sai didn't deliver this message in person and that his words suggest he is awed by Gengo.

It is apparent to Riven that Gengo is a major threat to the Sentinel Union's peace and that, in order to protect the Union, Gengo must be assassinated. Corvin does not hesitate to volunteer for the job, chiefly so that he can try to find Sai. He will need help on the mission, but runs into issues when meeting with his friends: he doesn't want to talk to Temari about it, preferring to keep it a Verdania-only matter; he doesn't want to involve Chōji or Ino because it's too foul a business; he doesn't want to ask Toren for help because he doesn't want Toren to lose faith in him. Riven assigns two Anbu, Rō and Soku, to assist Corvin and they secretly leave Verdania, travelling to the Land of Silence after three days of nonstop travel. They infiltrate the capital city and start interrogating Enlightened Ones, Gengo's followers who all revere him and who believe he will revolutionise the world. 

Corvin, Soku, and Rō disguise themselves as Enlightened Ones and attend a rally where Gengo delivers a speech to an enraptured crowd. As they move into position to assassinate Gengo, their presence is inexplicably discovered. Corvin tries to capture Gengo with his shadow, but his shadow refuses to be used against Gengo. Sai, now an Enlightened One, comes to Gengo's aid and captures Corvin and the others. Corvin is imprisoned, forced to endure sounds of Rō and Soku's torture and Gengo's occasional small talk. After ten days they are brought before Gengo, who invites Corvin to become his right-hand man. When Corvin refuses, Gengo observes how the world is skewed against sentinel: it is sentinel who can use shadow arcana, yet it is normal people who form the majority of the population; it is normal people who govern, yet it is sentinel who die in the wars those same normal people start.

Gengo believes the world is unjust to sentinel, which Rō and Soku agree with. Corvin also finds his words compelling and starts doubting the work he's done to protect the current sentinel system. Yet he can't bring himself to agree, a small place in his heart clinging to the question of why he should be subordinate to Gengo. Gengo invites Corvin to kill him if he truly believes it's the right thing to do. Corvin starts to suspect Gengo is using some sort of mind arcana, but gives up on figuring it out and prepares to join hands with Gengo. Before he can, a gust of wind suddenly lifts him into the air and then drops him on the ground. Corvin sees that it is Temari's doing and, from her appearance and her words, Gengo's influence over him disappears. He realises that Gengo's words are laced with mind arcana, which, now that he knows this, means they no longer have sway over him. Although he can't actually refute anything Gengo said, Corvin states that the sentinel system has Toren and Temari and that's reason enough for him to defend it.

Gengo attacks, trading blows and words with Corvin. Corvin decides that, rather than the unremarkable life he used to want, he'd prefer dedicating himself to creating a peaceful world where it doesn't matter whether or not a person is a sentinel. Corvin overpowers Gengo, but Sai forces him to let Gengo go. Temari fights Sai so that Corvin can go after Gengo. He follows him to a room too dark to use his shadow, forcing him to rely on his other senses to dodge and disarm him. When Rō and Soku – freed from Gengo's mind arcana – join him and open a door to provide some light, they team up against Gengo: Corvin distracts Gengo with shadow clones while Rō hides his aether, allowing him to manoeuvre behind Gengo. He restrains Gengo with his shadow and Soku uses a Aether Needle on his tongue, robbing him of his ability to talk. Gengo's influence over the Enlightened Ones disappears and he is taken into custody.

In the aftermath, Corvin is confronted by Toren, who is upset that Corvin would put himself in danger without telling him. Corvin promises to never keep anything from Toren ever again. Gengo is turned over to Zephros, the Sand Archon, who led the reinforcements responsible for saving him. Although Zephros claims he only did it because of how important Corvin is to the Sentinel Union, he points out he might not have done so without Temari's insistence. As the Sand Archon leaves with his other Suna-nin, Corvin asks Temari to stay behind so that he can ask her out on a date. She responds with, "How troublesome". When Corvin gets back to Verdania he is given a week off by Riven, but he no longer finds the distinction between work and relaxation as troubling as he did before. Riven gives him a mission when he returns to work that, while important, can be accomplished by almost anyone. For that reason, Corvin turns down the mission, as his date with Temari is the next day.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie
Two years after the war, Corvin was placed in charge of a team tasked with rescuing Hanabi Moonvane from Toneri Ōtsutsuki. Because Toneri may have some involvement in the imminent crashing of the Moon into the Earth, Riven gave Corvin a clock that will keep track of how much time there is until the Earth's destruction; Corvin and his team were to prevent that if at all possible. They followed Toneri's trail into an underground passage, within which they were faced first with mind arcana-based defences and then the Gatekeeper. They eventually made it through the passage, arriving in what they later discovered is the Moon's interior.

After they spent the day investigating the surrounding landscape, Elara Moonvane voluntarily joined with Toneri and Toren was badly injured in his failed attempt to stop her. Once he regained consciousness after three days, Toren lost all willingness to continue since Elara seemingly took Toneri's side. Corvin lectured him about not giving up, reminding him that no matter what Elara had done and no matter what Toren's feelings for her are, they still had a mission to complete. Their team assaulted Toneri's base, with Corvin figuring out how to pass through its protective barrier by observing Toneri's puppets. Corvin then held off the puppets with his shadow while the others went looking for Elara and Hanabi. They succeeded in finding them and Toren defeated Toneri, which had the added benefit of saving the Earth. They returned home through the same passage they arrived in.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main article: Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Toren and Elara decided to get married shortly after the mission to the Moon and Corvin is invited to the wedding. He had lunch with Chōji to discuss what he should give them as a wedding present, feeling that his first choice of money would be thoughtless. He finally settled on getting them a romantic honeymoon trip, but would need a woman's input to help him plan something suitable. While looking for Ino to help in this regard, they ran into Temari, who also happens to be a woman. Corvin was reluctant to ask her for help, feeling she didn't have the right personality; he's also embarrassed about their previous date, during which they spent most of their time discussing work. Chōji forced him to ask her anyway, but from the way Corvin poses the question, Temari believed he's asking her to plan their own honeymoon. She was embarrassed and Corvin, not realising the confusion, believed he's offended her. He tried to find an excuse to leave, but Temari held him back and agreed to tour the Verdania Hot Springs' district with him.

Evening descended and Corvin and Temari walked around in the soft lighting of the hot springs. Temari remained quiet and strange the whole time, so Corvin suggested they go to a shop so the trip isn't wasted. Temari pointed out some target-throwing booths where numerous couples are trying to win prizes. Corvin ended up winning two small trinkets in his determination to figure out the booths' scam, which he gave to Temari. Afterwards, he took her to an inn, hoping she can tell him if Elara would like it. Temari suspected he had other intentions and declined, believing she won't refuse him if they go inside. Corvin putshis hands on her face, worried she's sick because of how red it is, causing her to run away. He chased after her, desperately needing her (opinion). When she stopped he assures her how important she is to him, explaining that he, as a man, couldn't evaluate the inn's services for women. Temari was confused once again and Corvin was confused by her confusion. He repeated that he wanted to give Toren and Elara a nice honeymoon and, now that he says it, he realised what Temari thought he meant earlier. Temari was put at ease and Corvin smiled from the misunderstanding. On the day of the wedding, Corvin happily discussed work with Temari.

Zephros Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage
Main article: Zephros Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage
Corvin and Temari decide to get married, which becomes its own political issue in Duneholm and also generates a second one: having Zephros get married first. When Zephros meets with the woman he is arranged to marry, Hakuto, Corvin secretly attends in case there's trouble. When various missing-nin attack the meeting, Corvin saves Temari from being killed by an enemy puppeteer.
After the attack is fought off, Zephros requests via Temari that Corvin meet him on the border between the Realm of Dunes and the Realm of Embers. There, Zephros turns Hakuto and her lover, Shigezane, over to Corvin so that they can elope and settle in Verdania under new identities; in order to make sure they won't be bothered in their new lives, Corvin will file a report corroborating Zephros's story that they were both killed in the desert. Before Corvin leaves to take Hakuto and Shigezane to Verdania, he smiles to see Zephros with Hakuto's sister, Shijima.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main article: Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
When enemy sentinel infiltrate Verdania, Corvin was part of a force tasked with finding and capturing the intruders.

New Era: Part I

After Corvin and Temari married, they had a son, Shikadai, who Corvin trained to be part of a new generation of Ino–Shika–Chō alongside Ino's and Chōji's children. Later, in addition of becoming the Sixth Archon's assistant, he became Mirai Embercrown's sensei after she left the Academy. On one occasion, Corvin joined a team to take down the Mezu Gang. When Riven retired as Archon, Toren was chosen as successor. However, when Toren didn't show up to his own Archon inauguration, Corvin had Verdaniamaru Embercrown disguise himself as Toren. 

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc

In the anime, as the new semester for the Academy was approaching and by extension new students joining, Corvin kept Toren on track with the various paperwork. On the day of the entrance ceremony, as everyone began looking for an absent Boruto, he suddenly appeared, crashing a train into the Archon Monument. Corvin then had everyone clear out to begin clean-up. Weeks later, when Shikadai was doing community work as punishment for an episode at the Academy, while Temari was furious, Corvin took it in stride, noting that no one is perfect and this will only help him grow. Temari, not pleased with the two males' attitude, decided to not give them any food for dinner that night.
Later, as a mysterious presence continued to cause people in the village to randomly attack the citizens, Corvin joined in an investigation. The investigation later discovered the perpetrator's actions were leaving its victims severely drained of their aether to the point of being hospitalised. As they continued their investigation, only to find no real leads, Corvin decided to help an overworked Toren back to his home. Once there, they learned that Boruto was acting strange recently. When they confronted Boruto about it, he proudly declared that he finally manifested his Lunar Eye. Corvin was sceptical about that as one normally requires extreme training to manifest the power. As Himawari herself proved that in rare occasions, one can independently awaken the Lunar Eye, it it was decided to for Toren to bring Boruto to Hiashi Moonvane who could give a better answer to the situation.
As the mysterious attacks began happening more commonly and expanding in area, evidence was found to suggest that the real goal of the perpetrator was to harvest people's aether. It was also discovered that Wood Release was possibly involved. As Root had a history of conducting its own secret research on the famed power of the First Archon, Corvin decided to research if more with Sai.

Later, a strange release of aether began spreading throughout the village. As it showed a similar nature to the aether of the rampages, Corvin went to act. He learned from Sai that the culprit was Sumire Kakei, who was the daughter of a radically loyal follower of Danzō's, Tanuki Shigaraki. Corvin realised that Sumire was able to hide her actions so effectively because the identities of all former Root members were sealed away to avoid ostracising from the other villagers. He heard from Riven that Sumire was completing the final request from her father to unleash the Gozu Tennō on the village. Despite the initial devastation, the attack ended soon afterwards with Sumire surrendering. As Corvin discussed the events with Toren and Sai, he noted his relief yet surprise at Sumire being stopped by Boruto appealing to her kindness.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring
When their sons' graduation from the Academy approaches, both Corvin and Toren take the time to help train them. Toren in fact takes too much time training his son, Boruto, in a game of hide-and-seek, so Corvin captures Boruto with his shadow so that Toren can get back to work. While they're both back in the office, they receive news from Kaelen about a boy with Eclipse Eye. Toren leaves the village to help Kaelen investigate, placing Corvin in charge of anything that comes up while he's absent. He also asks Corvin to apologise to Boruto for not waiting around for him to see him off.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc
In the anime, as sentinel classes began preparing for the graduation exams, Vexaris came to the village to discussing matters with Toren about his research on Danzō's old experiments. As Vexaris delivered promising results to aid Kaelen in his own investigations, Corvin voiced his still limited trust in Vexaris, reminding him to stay in disguise while roaming the village, which the The Three Legends nonchalantly disregarded as obvious.

Novice Mission Arc
Main article: Novice Mission Arc
Corvin aided Toren in assigning the first mission for each of the new novice. Afterwards, he openly admitted to worrying about how Shikadai would do on his mission, to which Corvin chuckled at how much times have changed.

Byakuya Gang Arc
Main article: Byakuya Gang Arc
In the anime, Corvin began teaching Shikadai more advanced tactics in shōgi to sharpen his mind for strategic planning. Later, when a group of self-proclaimed noble thieves began making various heists throughout Verdania, their act of distributing their stolen wealth to the poor began gaining much support from many of the villagers. Even more, swarms of protesters began emerging in the village against various legitimate companies, fuelled by the Byakuya Gang's claims of the said companies being corrupt, one of which included the Kaminarimon Company. In hopes of better understanding this new enemy, it was decided to talk to the other villages for any information on the Byakuya Gang.
Later, the protesting was growing potentially violent. As Corvin came to aid, he crossed paths with Mitsuki, who informed him of Boruto rushing to aid Shikadai's sudden leaving of his post. Deciding to investigate his son's actions himself, he found Inojin and Chōchō facing a member of the Byakuya Gang. After swiftly defeating the foe himself, Corvin decided to look the other way on the novice ignoring orders to avoid fighting the thieves. When the novice asked Corvin to help them with the pursuit, he reluctantly declined as he still had to help with the chaos from the riots. He was however happy to hear how determined Shikadai seemed during this.
As the Five Great Sentinel Nations continued to investigate the remains of Kaguya's legacy, they found another ruin that was connected to her. Corvin then joined Toren in personally investigating it.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

When Verdania began celebrating a new annual holiday, Parent and Child Day, Corvin offered to set up a schedule to ensure Toren would have time with his own family. Later, Corvin joined his son for the day, accompanied by Sai, Bren, and their respective sons. When Temari learned that the winner of an eating competition would get unlimited free dumplings from Ankorodō for one year, she forced Corvin and Shikadai to compete, wanting the prize for herself. However, they soon overate, leaving them physically sick and unable to continue. Later that night, the Shadewell men nervously ate dinner under the stern watch of a noticeably angered Temari due to their failure at the competition.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc

Toren's already heavy workload becomes even more complicated by the approaching The Ascension Trials. Sensing the difficulties this is causing Toren's personal life, Corvin volunteers to complete some of his work for him so that Toren can spend time with his family. Later, as investigations into Kaguya's former activities continued, it was discovered that her creation of the White Zetsu Army was in fact set up as a further precaution for a looming threat.
Corvin designs the exams' first stage and keeps Toren informed about how Boruto is performing. When both Boruto and Shikadai advance to the final rounds, Corvin sets up a competition with Toren about which of their sons will win if they end up fighting each other. Boruto and Shikadai do indeed fight each other and Boruto is initially declared the winner, but Toren catches Boruto cheating and forces him to be disqualified.

The finals are interrupted by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, who attack Toren and destroy much of the stadium where the finals are being held. Corvin attempts to restrain both of them with his shadow, but Momoshiki absorbs it and Corvin is forced to withdraw. Toren is captured and Kaelen organises a rescue team consisting of himself, Boruto, and the other Five Archon. Corvin sees them off as they travel to Momoshiki's Planet, noticing that Katasuke and Kōsuke are following after them. Toren is saved and life in Verdania returns to normal; in the movie's novelisation, Corvin is tasked with organising another Adept Exam.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, after the defeat of Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki and Verdania recovered from his attack, a Archon Summit was held. Corvin also attended to discuss the next course of action. Later, when two adept gate guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Corvin joined Toren and his advisers when overseeing Ino probe one of the guard's his mind for answers, learning that Mitsuki had left willingly with the attackers. When Toren revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Vexaris's son, much outrage followed from learning that Toren would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Archon live in Verdania, let alone keep it a secret. Toren rationalised this on the grounds that Vexaris's conduct has changed from before and that he was aiding in investigating the Ōtsutsuki. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Vexaris, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat. As the council and Archon continued to talk about how best to deal with this, Corvin continued to express his approval of Toren's actions. When Verdaniamaru requested to be sent to retrieve Boruto and Sarada, who left the village to go after Mitsuki, Corvin denied it, as his conflicted feelings about Mitsuki meant he couldn't be objective in the mission.
As questions continued to build up on Mitsuki, Toren and Corvin still felt the situation didn't make sense for Mitsuki to betray them. They began wondering if the enemy's goal was Mitsuki himself because of his unique background. They received word that one of the guards was recovering and would soon awake to give them answers. The guard revealed the attackers were from Ironpeak and were on route to the Realm of Stone, and Sai reported that the arcana that injured Yurito was Explosive Clay. As Toren contacted Kurotsuchi about the situation, Corvin began wondering why the enemies had such an interest in Mitsuki. Later, as talks about what to do about Mitsuki's apparent betrayal continued, it was reluctantly determined that they would have to place extreme punishment for Mitsuki. Overhearing this, Verdaniamaru insisted that he be the one to bring Mitsuki back, which Toren reluctantly agreed to. As Toren contacted Ironpeak again for an update, he was told that Kurotsuchi left on an important mission. After hearing this, Toren and Corvin were now certain that something foul was happening in Ironpeak.

Corvin's fears were proven correct when Shikadai contacted his father via phone, revealing that Ironpeak was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. While Corvin told his son to stay hidden, Shikadai insisted that he figured out enough to make a move against the enemy. The call was then cut short as the enemy forced Shikadai to retreat. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Corvin talk with the other officials and decided that he would join Toren in meeting with the other daimyō to get their support on engaging this personal matter. After finally getting approval, Toren and an escort moved out, leaving Corvin in-charge during the Archon's absence. Before leaving, they were confronted by Team 7's fellow novice. Having learned of their friends danger, they were determined to help and requested to join the Archon. 
While Toren initially refused to put the novice in danger, the group firmly said they will go with or without his approval. Admiring their loyalty to their friends, Toren decided to let them, impressing Corvin. Later, the chaos in Ironpeak was subdued, but also came with the passing of Ōnoki. This left Corvin in charge for a while longer while Toren went to the late Stone Archon's funeral as a representative for Verdania. Upon Toren's return, while Mitsuki was pardoned for his apparent betrayal on the grounds that he saved Ironpeak from the Fabrications, the Team 7 novice were stripped of their sentinel status for having deserted the village. Later however, thanks to support and gratitude from Kurotsuchi, it was agreed to restore the students their sentinel status.

Later, as the elder sister of Fifth Sand Archon, Temari was invited to join Zephros at the Wind Daimyō's banquet. Corvin however chose not to attend as he felt his duties as chief adviser to the Archon were more important. Enchū Shadewell, the elder adviser of the Shadewell Clan, was deeply annoyed that Corvin, as head of the Shadewell Clan, would not be joining. He voiced his disdain at how much the Shadewell Clan appeared to slipping since the Fourth World Sentinel War and the constant gossip of the Realm of Dunes that the Shadewell Clan was not worthy of the unity between the Sand Archon Clan ever since Corvin married Temari. Corvin insisted that such gossip was irrelevant and that he worked earnestly to progress his clan. Later, Corvin learned that Enchū approached Shikadai with the offer of going into politics under the teachings of the Fire Daimyō to better the reputation of the Shadewell Clan. Trusting that this was what his son wanted, Corvin decided to not get in the way. The following day however, Shikadai decided to decline offer, instead deciding to prove the worth the Shadewell Clan by mastering the various Wind Release techniques from his mother along with the Shadewell hiden techniques.

Verdania Shinden: Steam Sentinel Scrolls
Main articles: Verdania Shinden (novel) and Verdania Shinden (anime)
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.
On the day of the Five Archon Summit in Verdania, Corvin saw Mirai off as she was tasked with accompanying Riven and Garron on their journey. He encouraged her to make good use of her late-father's blades. When she attempted to make the correct guess on his quiz on what the True King is, he again told her she was wrong.
Later, after Mirai returned from her mission, which included saving young girls from the remnants of the near-forgotten Jashin cult, he was happy to hear Mirai finally figure out the right answer for the quiz.

One-Tail Escort Arc
Main article: One-Tail Escort Arc
In the anime, Corvin received a message from Kaelen via his hawk revealing the current location of Urashiki Ōtsutsuki. Later, Corvin and Toren were surprised by the delivering of Shukaku from Zephros, explaining Urashiki's intent to capture the primal beast. While Corvin and Toren were concerned about the events and learning that Boruto was there, Kaelen quickly appeared, revealing that he already saved Boruto and that Urashiki had disappeared. In addition to setting up a Archon Summit to deal with the potential danger to the other primal beasts, it was decided that Shukaku would for the time being remain in Toren's care.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc

In the anime, Corvin and Toren later learned that Urashiki was on the move again, being even more indiscriminate in his stealing of aether. Soon after, while pleased that all of the Five Great Sentinel Nations were on alert and willing to share all intel on Urashiki, Corvin voiced his concern about Mirai's sudden disappearance and also wondered what the alien foe's true goal was for gather all this aether. Later, it was decided to test new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location. During the field test, Urashiki was spotted in the area. This prompted most of the Verdania-nin in the village to engage, while Corvin stayed in the Archon Office to help protect Toren.
Meanwhile, the grown-up Kaelen and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection. There, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Toren. During which, past-Corvin and his friends helped Boruto and Toren clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Toren and Valdric caused. Days later, Corvin and the rest of his team invited Boruto and Toren to join them in an after-mission barbecue dinner at Yakiniku Q. Noticing how concerned Toren looked, Corvin reminded his friend to come talk to him if there is trouble before it escalates, which Toren acknowledged.
Days later, Verdaniamaru, Moegi, and Udon approached Corvin and his friends for help, telling how Toren and Boruto were battling a dangerous foe. They quickly agreed to help, determined not to lose another friend after Kaelen. By the time they arrived however, Urashiki was already defeated. The group then escorted their injured friends to the hospital. Days later, after Kaelen and Boruto recovered and prepared to return to their time, Kaelen first used his Eclipse Eye to erase the memories of everyone he and Boruto came in contact of the recent events with to protect the timeline.
Some time later, back in the present, Sumire was officially transferred to join the Scientific Sentinel Weapons Team. Toren reached out to the Land of Iron and requested an exchange student to take Sumire's spot on Team 15. Corvin was concerned about his experimental move of mixing sentinel with samurai, but Toren insisted it would help close the gap between the two.

Corvin Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals
Main article: Corvin Shinden
The morning after drinking alcohol and smoking tobacco, Corvin woke up in his house smelling of cigarettes, and greeted Shikadai who informed him that Temari was in a bad mood. Greeting his wife in the kitchen, he was ignored. Dragging himself to have a bath, Corvin cleaned himself before getting dressed. Presented with food by Temari, Corvin apologised for forgetting to eat dinner together the night before, and complimented her food. As the two began talking, Temari reminded him that he had forgotten their wedding anniversary yesterday, which was due to preparing for the upcoming Five Archon Summit, prompting Corvin to apologise. Corvin then left to the Archon building before being late for work. At the Archon building, Corvin attended the Archon Summit with Toren, and listened to the Archon bicker about topics concerning Verdania. During the meeting, Kurotsuchi demanded Verdania to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace, and said Ironpeak would leave the Five Great Sentinel Country alliance if they didn't. As the meeting ended, Corvin found the situation troublesome. Afterwards, Corvin met with Hinoko and Rō to organise them to infiltrate Ironpeak to see if there is something going on in the village to explain Kurotsuchi's attempt at disturbing the peace.
Intending to visit Ōnoki during the mission, Corvin waited at the Realm of Stone's border, where he was approached by a security team of sentinel and escorted to the Archon's house.

Mujina Bandits Arc
Main article: Mujina Bandits Arc
In the anime, Corvin was part of the briefing of Team 7's mission to infiltrate Hōzuki Castle to verify the information about the Mujina Bandits offered by Kokuri in exchange for protection. Ultimately, the mission was a success, freeing Kokuri and gaining his information on the Mujina Bandits (albeit they were unaware that Kokuri was in fact killed by Shojoji and used his appearance to escape). Several months later, Corvin helped prepare Toren for a meeting with Ikkyū Madoka, the Fire daimyō. During which, he and Toren discussed financial matters.

Kaelen Retsuden Arc
Main articles: Kaelen Retsuden and Kaelen Retsuden (manga)
When Toren became afflicted with an unknown illness, Kaelen decided to go to the Land of Redaku when learning of stories that the Sage of Six Paths had the same illness and found a cure there. After Riven found more information about the myth, Corvin sent Lyra to update him when he couldn't receive messenger hawks.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc

Later in the anime, Team 25 and Kaelen were sent to investigate the information extracted from the captured Shojoji about Kara's existence in Rainveil. Upon their return, they reported that Kara had long ago abandoned their facility in Rainveil and were performing biological experiments. They also learned that there were in fact civilians who sympathised with Kara and its goals.
Later, they learned that Victor, president of the Land of Valleys' premiere medical and research company, was in fact a member of Kara. Knowing he had somehow acquired a sample of the First Archon's cells, Corvin decided to use connections in the Land of Valleys to get permission to investigate Victor's company. Three days later, he got the approval to send a team to stealthily investigate. Later, after Team 10 returned from a joint mission with Shinki's team to retrieve Urashiki's puppet, Shikadai reported about their attack from Deepa, the same man who assaulted Team 7. This news greatly concerned and disturbed Corvin.
Following the defeat of Victor, who was revealed to be a member of Kara, Verdania leadership discussed on how to handle the shadowy organisation, knowing now that even influential people in the world could be associated with the enemies. Also learning of Kara's various collaborators, "Outers", they considered closing off the gates to Verdania to stop the flow of information. Toren was torn on this, asking for a day to think it over. Ultimately, as Corvin suspected, Toren decided to not close the gates as it would deter cooperation with the outside world, instead deciding to reinforce security.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc

In the anime, Corvin attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War, where he and Ino reminisced their fathers' death. At the end of the memorial service, he met Ao, the sole survivor of the Ten-Tails' attack on the Allied Sentinel Force's HQ. Knowing he worked beside his father, Corvin asked Ao if Shikaku really believed his son and the others could defeat the Ten-Tails with his final plan. Ao assured him that his father never had any doubt about Corvin's abilities and was proud of him to the end, leaving Corvin truly grateful.
When Toren decided to test Katasuke Tōno's new Scientific Sentinel Weapon, Corvin and Sai watch Toren test it against Boruto at the Training Hall. During the match, Corvin applauds Boruto for using his Phantom Double Technique in order to get behind his father. After Toren defeats his son, he reveals that he was using a prototype for a new weapon based of Momoshiki's shadow arcana-absorbing power. As Boruto began to get angry for feeling the match was unfair, Kaelen soon arrived to explain the need of the weapon, noting that a coming danger of enemies like the Ōtsutsuki Clan. Toren then has Team Verdaniamaru take a C-rank mission to escort Katasuke to Ryūtan City.
In the anime, when Verdaniamaru and Mugino went missing while on mission to investigate a state-of-the-art crashed blimp, concern was raised. Corvin confirmed that each of the other allied nations had no knowledge of this blimp. They wondered if Kara was involved.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

When Team 7 found a mysterious boy named Kawaki with connections to Kara, they brought him back to Verdania. While the boy was greeted with kindness when he woke up, he quickly tried to run away, only for Corvin's Shadow Paralysis to stop him, insisted that he was perfectly safe. Afterwards, Corvin spoke privately with Toren, insisted that it was too risky to leave the boy inside the village or to go about freely as in addition to his great power and being a target for Kara, he could very well be a spy. Toren however insisted that they treat Kawaki as a guest, seeing the boy as very much like he was a child, being feared for the power within. Following protocol, Toren called forth a Archon Summit. As Katasuke explained his analysis of the boy's uniquely remodeled body, talk about the boy's fate began. It was unanimously decided to treat the boy with sympathy as they were no strangers to children being made into weapons. It was also agreed for the boy to live with Toren, who would watch over him at all times, which Kurotsuchi was impressed at how much multi-tasking Toren could do through his shadow clones.
In the anime, after Delta of Kara assaulted the village and failed to retrieve Kawaki from Toren, Corvin voiced his concerns again about keeping the boy so close to the village. Despite his protests, he was outvoted on removing the boy. While accepting this vote, Corvin instead decided to put additional security on Kawaki, including having Verdaniamaru regularly report to him in case of any new activity from Kawaki.
As Kawaki began opening up to people, Toren decided to teach him shadow arcana at his request. During training, Sai and Corvin discussed whether or not they could really trust Kawaki, Corvin finding others naive for trusting Kawaki too much. Sai informed him of the intel recovered by Verdaniamaru, and that it had been passed along for Kaelen to investigate, as space–time shadow arcana was required. Following the dangers associated with Kawaki and enemies after him, Corvin told Shikadai to maintain a certain distance from Kawaki.

Later, when Jigen arrived in the village through Kawaki's Kāma and took Toren into another dimension, Corvin quickly acted upon Kawaki, detaining him while having a team use a Four Violet Flames Formation to lock down the area while he interrogated Kawaki about the recent events, openly voicing his distrust of Kawaki since the beginning. While Boruto vouched for Kawaki, the boy decided to accept Corvin's authority, admitting the logical theory of the situation. Corvin, wondered why if Toren was defeated, why Jigen hadn't returned yet. He theorised that they were either still fighting or Jigen was weakened too much to return. Suddenly, Kawaki's prosthetic began reacting. Realising that Toren was still alive, just detained, Kawaki reattached the arm decided to test a theory. By synchronising his mark Kāma with Boruto's, they were able to produce the same rift Jigen had did earlier. While Corvin refused to let Kawaki or anyone enter the rift, Kawaki used his Kāma to escape Corvin's technique while he and the novice entered the rift to find Toren. Corvin disapproved of their recklessness and was informed that while Kaelen had been located, he was injured and in no condition of using space-time shadow arcana to follow Kawaki and the novice, worrying Corvin.

After the novice returned with Toren, Corvin briefed him on what he missed. In the anime, they discussed the recent events. Corvin was shocked to learn that Kara had their own Ten-Tails sealed away in that separate dimension. Kawaki also informed them that each member of Kara was modified with Sentinel-Ware, granting them abilities besides shadow arcana. After everyone else left, Corvin discussed with Toren on how best to deal with Kawaki, stressing the danger of Jigen's infiltration method, and proposed tightening security on Kawaki. When Kawaki made the decision to leave the village to spare it of Jigen's wrath, he was intercepted by Corvin and Boruto. Corvin still did not personally like the idea of Kawaki staying, but trusted Toren's decision as his friend and the Archon, also insisting to Kawaki that Verdania always looked out for its own, which included Kawaki now.
In the anime, after Verdania learned of Boro's cult, Corvin and Toren sent Sai and Verdaniamaru on a mission to infiltrate it in hope of learning the new whereabouts of Kara's Ten-Tails. Upon their return, they reported on Boro's scheme to acquire followers to be used in Kara's Vessel experiments, and that despite her defeat at Toren's hand, Delta was somehow active again, having destroyed the cult's base.
Later, he was contacted by Ino, who informed him of Shikadai being taken hostage by Amado, who wished to talk to him. Corvin revealed Toren's recovery, much to Amado's relief, and was told Amado wished to defect to Verdania, offering them intel on Kara, Jigen, their Ten-Tails, and the Ōtsutsuki.
Amado was detained, where despite his claims of seeking asylum, was very bold while being interrogated. As Corvin made his anger for the man known, Amado began explaining all he knew. He revealed that how the Ōtsutsuki have since before recorded history been travelling from planet to planet, harvesting its aether for the sake of evolving itself while destroying the planet in the process, using the Ten-Tails for the process. He also revealed that Jigen himself was turned into an Ōtsutsuki from being branded by his Kāma of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. Amado also revealed to have sabotaged the blimp to free Kawaki and likewise ensure that Kaelen would get the intel of Isshiki. Amado's glasses then began beeping. His glasses were taken off, revealing a holographic projection of Jigen talking with Kashin. They learned that Kashin and Amado were working together and that Kashin intended to kill Jigen.
As they watched the fight, Amado insisted in Toren agreeing to his asylum deal, angering Corvin when he declared he'd only remove Shikadai's bomb when he had his deal in writing. When Kaelen pointed out an apparent inconsistency in Amado's explanation of how Kāma worked, Amado's chuckle in response to it caused Corvin to grab him by the collar. Amado continued explaining the unusual circumstances regarding Jigen, eventually claiming he'd teach them how to kill the death-transcending Ōtsutsuki. When Jigen's death triggered Isshiki's resurrection in his body, Amado explained this also erased Kawaki's Kāma to avoid duplicates, leading Corvin to realise that without any remaining Kāma, Isshiki was vulnerable to a permanent death.
After Amado was officially made a citizen of Verdania, aware of his rights and limitations, Corvin demanded he remove the bomb from Shikadai. Amado confessed he had bluffed, causing Corvin to finally calm down while snarkily praising Amado for being so thorough with his plans. Amado continued to explain their situation, and suggested an evacuation. They were alerted of Isshiki's arrival.

After an order was issued for civilians to evacuate the village and sentinel to not engage the threat, Corvin joined Sai in taking Kawaki to an underground facility protected from Isshiki's Lunar Eye, ordering Amado to join them. Once secluded, Corvin resumed directing the Verdania forces via communication networks. He received reports that Boruto and Isshiki had disappeared, followed by Toren and Kaelen. He pointed out to Kawaki he was free, no longer being Isshiki's vessel, but Kawaki dismissed it as Isshiki still intended to rebrand him. He watched with interest as Amado observed Boruto's potential role in the fight against Isshiki.
Amado explained that Boruto, as a wielder of a Kāma, was invaluable to Isshiki. As the God Tree could only reach full maturity by sacrificing an Ōtsutsuki, Isshiki originally intended to sacrifice himself through Jigen and later resurrect again through Kawaki. But once Boruto was fully transformed by his mark, Isshiki could accelerate his plans by sacrificing Boruto instead. Corvin was disgusted by this tactic. Kawaki was furious at Amado's calm demeanour, demanding to know how much of this he planned for. Corvin managed to calm him down. 

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc
In the anime, following Isshiki's attack, Toren requested that Corvin reorganise the The Ascension Trials that were interrupted by Momoshiki's attack. Corvin acted as a proctor for the second exam. Corvin explained that for the final round, the finalists would have to face off each other in one-on-one combat. Corvin dealt with a lot of paperwork to rebuild the arena before the finals. He watched the matches along Toren and Sai. At the end of the second match, between Wasabi Izuno and Iwabee Yuino, Corvin commented to Toren that their bickering about becoming Archon reminded him of Toren and Kiba when they were younger. During the third match, after Sarada decides to commit herself against Chōchō, Corvin, Sai, and Toren comment on how the match improved. When Boruto and Mitsuki were absent after their names were drawn for the fourth match, Corvin recommended not giving them special treatment, so they were both disqualified.
Days later, Mirai returned poisoned from what it was supposed to be a simple escort mission with Verdaniamaru, and reported he had been taken prisoner by Hyōgo. Corvin discussed the situation with Sai and Toren, and they agreed to send Team 7 as reinforcements. They commented on the team's feeling regarding their last mission with Verdaniamaru as their captain.
Corvin voiced his concerns about making Kawaki a novice, feeling that his modified body would be a prime target for enemies to go after. Toren however insisted that for Kawaki to grow, he needed to experience the outside world and make friends along the way who would protect him. Because Kawaki fared poorly in D-rank missions with different teams, lacking team-work, Corvin deemed him unfit for being a sentinel. He and Toren agreed to assign him a C-rank escort mission as a final chance to qualify as a novice. He was concerned about intel of a recently discovered dead body, linking it to five other assassinations in other countries. Verdaniamaru later updated them that all victims where from the same country as the client of Team 10's mission, so they dispatched Team 7 as reinforcements, as they were on a mission nearby.

Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
Main article: Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
In the anime, the Realm of Tides faced a civil war against the Funato Clan. Team 5 and Team 7 accidentally found themselves caught in it. Aiding Misthollow, the teams were able to help end the war peacefully. Upon their return to Verdania, Corvin and Toren informed them of the aftermath from Chōjūrō.
Corvin later took care of Toren's paperwork when he went on vacation with his family to a hot springs inn, and explained the situation to Mirai.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
Main article: Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
In the anime, Corvin and Toren assigned Kawaki a secret mission, to protect princess Kae Yukiwari from the Land of Bamboo while she attended the Academy as an exchange student. They explained that Kae's father discovered an assassination plot targeting his daughter, and sent her there while he investigated the matter domestically, Kae herself unaware of the threat. Corvin later attended the entrance ceremony for the new Academy class. 
Following a terrorist attack on the Academy that served as a diversion for an attempt on Kae, Corvin and the other officials learned that Kawaki knew of the potential attack and didn't report it. Upset with his lack of responsibility, Corvin officially removed him from the mission. Later, when another attempt on Kae's life that was thwarted by Kawaki. Corvin told Kawaki that thanks to his efforts, Batora was able to report his discovery of Land of Bamboo's prime minister masterminding the assassination plot, officially completing the mission.
While reviewing background files, Hana Kaka was discovered to hail from the Land of Bamboo, leading to the full uncovering of the plot against Kae. After other conspirators were arrested by Sai and Team 25, Corvin joined in reporting the events to Toren. Corvin found it risky to merely suppress Hana's assassin personality, but Toren respected Hana's wish to teach that personality to live for more than her mission.

Code's Assault Arc
Main article: Code's Assault Arc

Later, Corvin was relieved to get word that Toren and the others had returned safely and defeated Isshiki. Shortly after, Corvin and Toren decided to indefinitely take Boruto off active-duty while deciding on how to deal with his Kāma, helping him pass time with various interviews from the media about his victory over Isshiki. After Amado finished restoring Kawaki's arm, he talked to Corvin and Toren about the remaining Kara-threats. Amado explained that once all the active Inners are gone, the various Outers will cease to function. He also noted that Ten-Tails seed of Kara must be dealt with quickly to protect the planet, and has likely been moved since Isshiki's defeat, but fortunately there are methods for Space-Time travelling besides shadow arcana. Finally, Amado explained the looming danger of the last Inner, Code. 
Despite proving incompatible with the Kāma as a vessel, he survived the process to be imbued with its power. Also, despite his modifications granting him might that far exceeded Jigen's, Code's fanatical devotion to Isshiki let him avoid being being disposed of, even agreeing to limiters being placed on him by Amado. As such, Code's would inevitably seek out and kill all who were responsible for Isshiki's death. Hearing such a threat, Toren requested Corvin to set up a Archon Summit. During the talk with the other Archon via video, they reviewed the nature of Code and his goals. Corvin also noted that Code already destroyed all the transfer portals to the pocket dimension housing Isshiki's Ten-Tails. As the hunt for Code continued, they found Claw Marks left by Code near the outer wall of the village, which based on Amado's intel, Corvin considered to work similar to the Flying Thunder God Technique. Their spread nature concerned him, and he wondered if they were decoys left with the intent to thin them out. Later, Corvin was contacted by Toren, who informed him of Kawaki's evasion of surveillance and ability to conceal his aether signature. He and Amado wondered how and why Kawaki left.

Knowing the risk of Kawaki meeting Code, Corvin ran to Toren's house declaring that he would join Toren in the retrieval since the Archon no longer had Pyraxis for additional power. Using Elder Form, Toren managed to detect Boruto's aether 40 kilometres away. Corvin asked Ino to keep full alert throughout the village and asked Toren to not get reckless as he couldn't maintain Elder Form for very long. Toren however assured him that he could keep it up much longer than before due to years of experience. Corvin remained firm that Toren must be cautious. They arrived in time to save Kawaki from having his arm broken by Momoshiki, Corvin pinning him with his shadow. Momoshiki absorbed his arcana to free himself. When Code took Corvin hostage, he urged Toren to ignore him and attack. Momoshiki decided to help kill Toren, who was also a problem for him, and was surprised to see Kawaki absorb Momoshiki's attack with a new Kāma to save Toren.

As Code kept muttering to himself, Corvin realised he was in contact with an ally. Corvin remained a hostage as Kawaki and Momoshiki fought, Kawaki reminding him of it mid battle. When Toren moved to save Boruto from Kawaki's attack, Code saw no point in killing Corvin, but kept holding him. He was shocked as Boruto emerged and allowed Kawaki to strike him down. Code opted to leave and released Corvin. While Kawaki was overwhelming Code, he pulled Daemon through the Claw Mark of his face, reflecting Kawaki's attack and knocking him out before leaving. Corvin tried to snap Toren out of his stupor, and began to consider how to deal with Kawaki, arguing with Toren, who still wanted to support Kawaki. He was stunned when Boruto woke up, his injuries completely healed.

Omnipotence Arc
Main article: Omnipotence Arc
Later, Corvin had Sumire check on Kawaki, still unconscious, but completely healed, because he didn't trust Amado to be near him again. Ibiki questioned the lack of restraints on Kawaki, but with his new and restored abilities, Corvin felt they had no actionable options, instead focusing on not antagonising Kawaki over his simple goal of protecting Toren. Sumire noticed the heavy atmosphere as Toren expressed wishing a long conversation with Kawaki when he woke up, but Corvin attributed it to almost getting killed earlier. Kaelen arrived and shared new intel about Code's likely location with Corvin, an Ōtsutsuki Cult hideout in the Land of Snow. Corvin confirmed to Kaelen the events following the battle with Code. Corvin checked on Amado by himself, and got rough with him, questioning his singular fixation with Kawaki and his Kāma. Code emerged from the Claw Mark on Corvin's neck, and Ino contacted him, having sensed Code's intrusion. He had her notify Toren, but said she shouldn't send reinforcements and to wait on his signal. He paralysed Code with his shadow, and revealed he knew of the mark on him, having baited him to come. He commanded a cyborg on Amado's lab awake, a reprogrammed Delta, who pinned Code down. He removed Code's hand from a Claw Mark, thinking he was retreating, but he had reached to bring Ada through instead.
Corvin noticed Amado's fear of Ada, and was puzzled by Delta stopping her attack and obeying Ada's command. He requested backup through Ino, and paralysed Ada with his shadow, beginning to feel feverish. Noticing the effect Ada was having on them, he asked Ino to link him with Amado, and warning him not to expose their communication, asked about her abilities. Amado did so, and warned him against trying to kill her to end the effect, as resisting her could result in mental damage. She was amused by how much he resisted her until he relented. He was concerned about the danger Toren and Kaelen would be in the room. Corvin recalled that Amado wouldn't fare well under torture and asked Ada her motives. He was surprised by her merely wanting Kawaki as a boyfriend, and contact Ino to change the access codes to the room and stall the reinforcements. Instead, he offered her the option to join Verdania, so she could tell Kawaki how she felt.
As Ada considered the offer, he informed Toren outside that the door access code had been changed to prevent others from falling under Ada's allure through Ino's arcana. When Ada was aware of this, Amado filled him him on the workings of her Senrigan. When Code resumed torturing Amado, Corvin reminded him that Code couldn't kill him before getting the command code. When they wanted to retreat to avoid Kawaki, Amado shared that Ada's allure wouldn't work on an Ōtsutsuki, leading to an argument between Amado and Corvin. He tried to hold Code and Ada there, but she had Delta interfere with his arcana. After they left, taking Amado with them, Kawaki arrived through a vent, wishing to speak with Amado. Corvin also requested him to remove Code's Claw Marks. Later, he explained Ada's alluring ability to Toren, Kaelen, Boruto, and Kawaki. He speculated on her status as a supposedly scrapped cyborg whose abilities exceeded Jigen's, and that she wasn't the only one active, recalling that Code used someone other than her to overpower Kawaki the previous night. Corvin argued with Kawaki over Amado's goals and he merits of discussing them, Kawaki deriding Amado as dead and Corvin as useless. However, Amado was alive, and called Corvin on the phone, where he updated Verdania about removing Code's power limiters, and the dissolution of his alliance with Ada, who accepted Corvin's offer, and would also bring her brother Daemon with her. After the call, Corvin decided to send Team 7 on a mission.
Alongside Verdaniamaru, Corvin detailed their situation with Boruto's and Kawaki's Ōtsutsuki issues, and updated Team 7 on what transpired between Amado, Code, and Ada. They explained to Team 7 they would live with Ada and Daemon, Sarada understanding it would be a surveillance mission. He revealed Ada's crush on Kawaki, and advised him to be mindful of her due to her clairvoyance, even addressing Ada herself whenever she reviews the event. He summarised how the team members would be deployed in the mission and in what capacity.
Corvin was part of the group greeting Amado, Ada, and Daemon when they arrived by train. Already aware of Corvin's setup, Ada agreed to it, and flew off carrying Daemon, surprising him. Amado told him to expect Boruto and Kawaki to display the ability soon. Corvin demanded Amado come clean with what he knew, being later joined by Toren. He later checked in through the comm system to see if Boruto and Kawaki had met the siblings.
When Amado explained the shinarcana nature and origins of Ada's and Daemon's abilities, transplanted from Shibai Ōtsutsuki's remains, Corvin asked Katasuke about the technological feasibility of Amado's claims. Katasuke doubted they could be achieved with human technology, but the technology he witnessed in the airship and Kawaki's body lent credence to his claim. He questioned how Shibai could be dead if he had access to Kāma resurrection. Amado didn't know, and shared his theory. When Amado told him about his goal of resurrecting his daughter with Kawaki's Kāma, and how this is what originally was promised to him by Jigen, Corvin asked Ada to confirm it with her Senrigan. She was able to verify that Akebi did exist and die as he claimed. Amado was offended by Corvin's distrust, who retorted that Amado himself has proven untrustworthy before. He asked Ada what Akebi's personality was like, wanting to know if she'd be hostile to Verdania, Ada confirming she was regular, and not at all like Delta. He found Amado's goal ultimate anti-climactic, but sympathised as parent. They agreed when Ada asked to call it a day. The next day, Corvin was contacted by mind link and informed that Sumire and Sarada were unaffected by Ada's entrancing. He instructed Sumire not to inform anyone else, as to avoid potential leaks, as this made the two of them capable of killing Ada if she was ever deemed a danger to the village. When Kawaki began a commotion over feeling that Momoshiki was planning something, Corvin managed to talk Kawaki down by reminding him of how Toren felt when he saw Boruto dead. When Kawaki left, Corvin ordered the sensors to keep track of him, but Kawaki erased his aether, so he asked Boruto to check for his presence. Boruto could confirm it, but not pinpoint his exact location. When Ada wanted to go out, Corvin relented and had Boruto join her. While shopping, Ada notified Corvin of Code's Claw Grime, and explained Code's targeting of things Kawaki loved as retribution for stealing from him.
When Corvin was notified of Toren's and Elara's disappearance, he considered the possibility of Code being involved, and had Ada check it when told that Kawaki's aether was briefly registered. She confirmed Kawaki was responsible for sealing them away. After Boruto rushed off to look for him, Ada reviewed Kawaki's conversation with Toren and Elara, and determined he would most likely try to kill Boruto again, shocking Sarada. Corvin confirmed that Kawaki had killed Boruto at his behest before, to stop Momoshiki. Sarada left to go after them against Corvin's orders. He later found them just as Boruto got his right eye slashed protecting Sarada from Kawaki, and pinned him with his shadow, which also prevented Kawaki from shrinking away. He asked what Kawaki did, but he claimed what he did was to protect Toren and Verdania. Momoshiki suddenly manifested through Boruto and absorbed Corvin's arcana, allowing Kawaki to escape. Corvin ordered the Verdania sentinel to be prepared to strike when Kawaki was recovering his aether after his extensive use of Sukunahikona.
As the search for Kawaki continued, Amado contacted Corvin, revealing he implanted a shutdown command on Kawaki. Corvin was annoyed at Amado's continued hiding of information. While Amado begged Corvin to not hurt Kawaki, and Corvin sympathised with Amado's desire to see his daughter again, he remained firm that if Kawaki didn't surrender he would be considered an enemy of Verdania. Corvin noticed a flash in the sky, which swapped Boruto's and Kawaki's histories in everyone's minds. Corvin found Kawaki with Ada, was told that Boruto killed Toren, and relayed the information to everyone.

New Era: Part II
During the initial period when he was affected by Ada's Omnipotence, like many in Verdania, Corvin suspected his altered memories due to the discrepancies, leading him to press Kawaki about it in order to clear up his doubts. However, over the years, due Omnipotence suppressing any lingering feelings of contradiction in his memories, Corvin began to ignore the discrepancies.
Shortly after Toren's alleged death, Corvin was appointed as Eighth Archon, a position he accepted on a provisional basis for three years, but has avoided permanently claiming. He then issued an execution order to Boruto and again placed Kaelen on the village's list of wanted criminals. Such decisions, however, caused Corvin to argue with Sarada several times to rescind his orders, culminating in him always rejecting her appeals.

Boruto's Return Arc
Main article: Boruto's Return Arc
Three years after Boruto departed Verdania, Corvin dismissed Sarada latest request to rescind the kill orders on Boruto and listen to his side of the story. He expressed concern for Sarada's future as a sentinel, denying that Kaelen's desertion was a factor, Sarada snapping back that Toren, having brought back a missing-nin and becoming Archon while still a novice, was her role model, not him. Kawaki reported to him the discovery of a Claw Mark on one of the sentinel sent to investigate them, requesting to have the others checked. When Code's Claw Grime attacked the village, he had Verdaniamaru lead the evacuation efforts, and upon Boruto's arrival, wanted everyone to stay alert to find out Boruto's plan, while still prioritising the fight with Code.
After Boruto's and Code's departure, Corvin heard Kawaki's report. He was concerned that Boruto learned Space–Time Shadow Arcana, but dismissed Kawaki's suggestion that whoever was communicating with Boruto was from Verdania, all possible communications being monitored. Sarada arrived, pointing out that Boruto came out of hiding to protect them from Code, and began arguing with Kawaki. Corvin changed the topic to the trees, Sarada pointing out the victims were still alive, and that Boruto seemed to know about them, suggesting an alliance.
Later, Corvin heard from Sai's surveillance of Amado that the scientist had come to the conclusion that his memories of Boruto and Kawaki had been altered. After a meeting with Koharu and Homura, where they pressed on him the importance of permanently taking on the position of Archon, he asked Ino to grab him old mission logs. Not wanting Ada to perceive things, he used as cover for him to silently signal Ino to set an off-the-record line of communication with Boruto. Mitsuki reported to Corvin that Kawaki detected Boruto's presence, revealing Boruto's ability to conceal his aether signature. He asked about Kawaki, Mitsuki having knocked him out so as not to alert Boruto of their presence. Corvin contacted Boruto just in time for Mitsuki to attack him. Boruto escaped to the outskirts of the village, but still in communication range, and resumed talks. Having considered Amado's theory, Corvin agreed that swapped positions made the situation make sense, and offered covert support. Boruto warned him he has to tie a loose end with a pursuing Mitsuki.
After Boruto subdued Mitsuki and convinced him they were not enemies, Boruto resumed his talk with Corvin. He explained that Corvin wouldn't retain knowledge of Omnipotence, having been told about it numerous times by Sarada and Sumire, but commended him for reaching the conclusion his memories weren't reliable on his own. Corvin thought that in Boruto's situation, he'd want to kill Kawaki, but Boruto denied it, hoping for reconciliation, and agreeing that for now, Boruto would need to remain being hunted so as not to expose Kawaki into taking drastic action. While Boruto continued to explain about the sentient God Trees, Kawaki requested a connection to make a report. Corvin was concerned that Kawaki would hear Boruto, but Ino assured him that the connections were independent and private. He received Kawaki's report based on Ada's intel, discreetly warning Boruto that Kawaki was going after him. Later, Corvin ordered Ino to keep what they learned a secret. He received a report of two intruders, one of them with Kaelen's aether signature, and gave evacuation orders.
After the invaders retreated, Boruto was detained and brought to interrogation. As Boruto explained what the sentient God Trees are and that the Seventh Archon and his wife are both alive, Corvin watched on. While his memories of speaking with Boruto about Omnipotence partially forgotten again, he still believed he needed to trust and help Boruto. He contacted Ino and requested her to give him another link to Ino. Despite the request of her friend, Ino reluctantly refused as it was breaching protocol too many times. As Boruto refused to give any more information, Corvin called on Mitsuki to help the interrogation with his venom. Secretly, he instead gave Mitsuki the code to unlock Boruto's cuffs. As Mitsuki succeeded in making it look like Boruto escaped on his own, the Verdania elders voiced their displeasure to Corvin in his failure today, noting that there would be consequences. 
As he was approached by Sarada and Sumire about Boruto, Kankurō contacted Corvin to reveal that the God Trees had attacked Suna, resulting in an injured Zephros being sealed and a Claw Grime consuming Shinki. Corvin promised to inform Kankurō on any new data they gained on the Claw Grimes and warned Kankurō to be on the lookout for anyone with Shinki's aether signature. Once the phone call ended, Corvin instructed Sarada and Sumire to inform him if they make any further contact with Boruto.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc
Main article: Matsuri and Ryū Arc
Later, Corvin approached Ada, who confirmed the emergence of the new Human God Tree, Ryū. She also revealed that one of the God Trees, Mamushi, could somehow perceive her watching of him through her Senringan. Changing subject, Corvin asked Ada if his assumption that Boruto's unknown ally, Koji Kashin, was correct. The former Inner confirmed it to Corvin through his nin-toad. He also told Corvin to send Team 7 to the Realm of Dunes and join with Yodo and Araya to deal with the soon arrival of Ryū and/or Matsuri. When Corvin asked why, Koji insisted that there was no room for questions to be answered if things were to work out. He also told Corvin to not let Himawari outside of Verdania as Jura was after her, but seemed to value Verdania's literature and doesn't want to risk destroying it. To which, if Jura does show up in Verdania because of wanting books, they cannot provoke him or it will mean utter demise. Koji also applauded Corvin for trusting his heart to help Boruto. 
Following this, Koji left a toad with Ada and Corvin respectively to stay in contact. Reluctantly, Corvin followed through and sent off Team 7. Using Koji's intel, but keeping secret where it came from, Corvin told Verdaniamaru how the Human God Trees are not necessarily evil, but rather unsure of their identities and acting purely on instinct. To which, he instructed Verdaniamaru to take advantage of Matsuri's romantic feelings developing for Verdaniamaru and befriend her until the moment was right to strike her down and obtain her Thorn Soul Bulb to free Moegi.
Ultimately, the mission was a success as Matsuri and Ryū were both destroyed and their respective Thornsoul Bulbs were secured. They were used to successfully free Moegi and Shinki respectively and were expected to make a full recovery. Also, Zephros was safely freed from his seal. Soon after, Corvin was called upon by the Verdania Elders.

Mamushi Arc
Main article: Mamushi Arc
As Corvin was walking to the meeting, he was contact by Koji via Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Technique. Koji warned Corvin that the meeting Corvin was to join would discuss his validity as village leader. Koji offered as much aid as possible to avoid Corvin's removal from a key position of authority. Upon arriving, the Verdania Council of Elders were joined by the Fire Daimyō's chief advisor, Kobu. As the concerns about Corvin's leadership was brought up from recent events, Corvin insisted that the Human God Tree threat forced him to act more instinct and all available knowledge, careful not to mention Koji's foresight. As the possibility of a mole being in the inner circle of the village was brought up, Corvin was then questioned in order to identify who helped Boruto escape custody in the village.
After Corvin escaped suspicion from Kubo and the elders, for the moment, Koji contacted Corvin again with Inojin's help. Koji explained how the Human God Tree, Mamushi, would attack the village soon. He warned everyone about his Division ability and how to best deal with it. When it was suggested they attack Mamushi before he arrives in the village, Koji said facing him in the village would be their best chance to defeat Mamushi because he would be more restricting in battle, fearing damage to Verdania and angering Jura, who came to enjoy the village's environment. 
Later, Corvin contacted Verdaniamaru with Inojin's aid. He admitted to Verdaniamaru that he was the one who freed Boruto. As Verdaniamaru began having similar conflicting feelings as Corvin about Boruto being the enemy, Corvin warned Verdaniamaru that the truth of his aiding a criminal would eventually be figured out. To which, he asked Verdaniamaru to help not only him, but Boruto and his allies.
In the following days, Shikadai secretly assembled a team to deal with Mamushi who also accepted Bortuo as an ally. Finally, Mamushi arrived, earlier than expected. Corvin contacted the team through Inojin's Mind Body Transmission Formation. He began explaining the situation and the nature of the Human God Tree's Division ability. He then coordinated their efforts. As the battle continued, Corvin was contacted by Sai on the separate Verdania channel about Boruto and Mamushi's sudden appearance. Feigning just learning about it, told Sai to have Mitsuki released from interrogation as it was an emergency situation.
Ultimately, Kobu's investigation deduced that Corvin was responsible for Boruto's escape from custody and called for him next to be interrogated. Knowing he had to focus completely on this new situation, he ordered Inojin to break his communication with the acting Archon. In the interrogation room, Corvin remained in denial with helping Boruto, but was not able to deceive Kobu. Suddenly, the advisor was taken over by Inojin's Mind Body Switch Technique via Koji's toads. As "Kobu" excused himself for a breather, Corvin decided to return to dealing with the Mamushi threat. However, Sai stopped him, having already realised that it was Inojin controlling Kobu and demanded to know what Corvin got his son involved in.
Sai demanded Corvin to explain what is going on and why all the secrets from the acting Archon, annoyed to know that his son was involved in Corvin's plans. As Corvin reminded Sai that they must act as sentinel before parents to protect the village, Sai conceded that Corvin's intentions were noble, asking what he could do to help. As Inojin contacted Corvin again with his Mind Body Transmission Formation, Corvin asked where Kobu is. Learning that the advisor was on the roof and being attacked by some Mamushis, Corvin and Sai rushed to help the man. They arrived in time to see Boruto save Kobu from the Mamashis and strike them down. Corvin confronted the injured man, insisting that the safety of the village must be dealt with first. Kobu conceded to this, but reminded Corvin that his investigation was not over and would bring to light the truth. 
After he ordered Sai to bring Kobu to medical help, Corvin turned his attention back to his team facing the Mamushis. As the Human GOd Treess began multiplying into the hundreds, Corvin decided to use his backup plan: Lead Mamushi to Ada. This would inevitably make all the Mamushis with their diminished intelligence join together, where the Verdania team could work with Daemon to defeat the Human God Tree and his Divisions.
As the Mamushis were willing led to Ada, Corvin asked about Sarada's Ōhirume and how many she could take down in a single attack, it was decided to thin out the numbers first. Soon after the Mamushis all gathered on Ada, Daemon and the Verdania team began their counterassault. Once getting the hundreds of Mamushis down to under 50, their plan to wipe the remainder failed when Sarada fainted from overusing her Ascended Eclipse Eye. The remaining Mamushis, now filled with survival instinct, multiplied into the thousands.
As Corvin struggled to think of how to handle this, Injoin was summoned to the field. With it deduced that the Divisions shared a hive mind, Inojin transferred his mind into a Mamushi, subsequently taking control of all the Mamushis. He then alerted Daemon, directing killing intent on the boy so he would reflect it back on the Mamushis and destroy their eyes, the only means for Mamushi to continue dividing. Following this, all the Mamushis collapsed and disintegrated. This also produced Mamushi's Thornsoul Bulb.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Main article: Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Toren, Lyra, and Corvin are sent to deliver Nerugui to its rightful owners. When they arrive at the village where Nerugui's owners live, they are attacked by Temujin's warriors, who wield the power of the Stone of Gelel. Corvin is eventually forced to fight the bat-like Kamira; he uses a net of explosive tags to trap her, allowing Kankurō to finish her off.

Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Corvin is part of a Verdania force sent to hold off Mōryō's stone army. He later helps prevent this same army from providing backup to Mōryō in its fight with Toren.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
When the Land of the Sky attacks Verdania, Corvin helps protect the villagers and fend off the attackers. Later, Corvin is put on a team with Riven, Sai, and Shino Hivewood to take down the Land of the Sky's ship fleet. Having deduced where the fleet is located based on its attack patterns, he and Riven work out a plan that enables the team to accomplish their mission.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Corvin was seen with Ino and Chōji at Yakiniku Q until he finds out that everyone is celebrating Toren and Sai's recovery. Toren tells everyone to celebrate and that Corvin will pay the bill, much to Corvin's dismay.
After Hiruko declares the start of the The Great Convergence War, Corvin visits Asuma's grave. Soon after, Riven approaches Corvin and tells him his plans to sacrifice himself in order to defeat Hiruko. Riven is shortly afterwards taken control of by Hiruko and forced to leave the village. When Toren attempts to go after him, Corvin stops him, though he does not divulge Riven's plans to anyone but Maelis. Despite his and Maelis's instructions to remain in Verdania, Toren and Lyra go after Riven and Corvin leads a team to bring them back.
They run into San along the way, whose defeat Corvin leaves to the rest of the team while he catches up with Toren. Upon reaching him, Corvin threatens to kill Toren, believing the future of Verdania is worth sacrificing Riven. Toren agrees that Verdania's future is important, but he doesn't feel the future is worthwhile if they assume sacrifices are the only way to protect it. Toren's words are in accordance with the Will of Fire and in fact remind Corvin of Asuma, so he joins Toren in rescuing Riven. On freeing Riven and getting drawn into a fight with Hiruko, Corvin advises Toren on where Hiruko's weak points are.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Corvin is part of the team sent to the Blood Prison to rescue Toren, who was wrongly imprisoned there.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Corvin and the rest of the Verdania 11 fight off an attack by what seems to be the entire The Obsidian Circle roster, but what are actually disguised parts of the White Zetsu Army. When Toren and Lyra are sent to the Mind Arcana World, they meet that world's Corvin: he is goofy, slow-witted, and lacks the real Corvin's intellect. His hair is also thicker, appearing star-shaped when held in its ponytail.

Video Games
Corvin Shadewell is a playable character in the following video games:

Creation and Conception
Masashi Kishimoto has noted that he likes Corvin due to his easygoing nature despite being a genius, and contrasted him against Kaelen Duskborne's intelligent but abrasive personality. Kishimoto also comically remarked that he would marry Corvin if he were a girl, noting that Corvin would likely be successful in life. When designing Corvin's Part II appearance, Kishimoto wanted to give Corvin a unique appearance despite drawing him with a vest that several other sentinel wear in the series. As a result, he drew his forehead protector on his arm in order to not obscure his hair.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Corvin Shadewell

In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Corvin was played by Tsubasa Hattori.
Corvin placed well in the Toren Character Popularity Polls, reaching an all-time high of fourth most popular.
In a 2010 Otonafami Magazine interview, Masashi Kishimoto stated that Hidan and Corvin were his favourite characters.
According to the databook(s):
Corvin's hobbies are taking naps and playing shōgi against formidable opponents.
Corvin desires to fight no one, and always tries to avoid getting into trouble in the first place.
Corvin's favourite foods are mackerel and kelp, his least favourite are boiled eggs.
Corvin has completed 39 official missions in total: 8 D-rank, 3 C-rank, 9 B-rank, 19 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Corvin's most used phrase is "How troublesome" (面倒くせい, mendōkusei, English TV: What a Drag).
According to Hyō no Sho, while in the Academy, Corvin had a B in shadow arcana and cooperation, a C in body arcana, mind arcana and positivity and an F in classroom attitude.
Corvin takes up Asuma's smoking habit after he dies as his way of both coping with his death and keeping Asuma's spirit alive. He isn't seen smoking again in the manga after he avenges Asuma up to Boruto: Toren Next Generations, but he is described as smoking in Zephros Hiden and the novelisation of Boruto: Toren the Movie. In the anime and English manga, the cigarettes are either removed or replaced with Asuma's lighter as the scene requires. However, in the Boruto anime his smoking habits are actually shown, apparently because he's already an adult there.
According to character trivia from Boruto: Toren Next Generations:
His attributes are: 115 in strength, 130 in negotiation, 100 in aether, 210 in intelligence, 160 in perception, and 133 in dexterity.
He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
Intelligence Gathering: ★★★★★
Observation: ★★★★★★
Quotes
(To himself while fighting Temari) "Oh, man… those clouds are so lucky… so free… More to the point, I didn't feel like doing this in the first place…And I only became a sentinel because I thought life would've been more interesting as one… I suppose things aren't gonna be that simple."
(About women, to his father) "C'mon. You know what they're like. You can never figure them out. You never know where you could stand with them. The smallest things could put you in their bad side. Always playing little mind games with you. Trying to make you do what they want. They're just a big pain basically."
(About Kaelen) "I never really liked Kaelen, but all the same, he's a member of Verdania; he's a comrade and I'll put my life on the line to help him, that's the way of our village. I know I usually seem like a pretty lazy guy but not today, because now I'm responsible for your lives too."
(To Tayuya) "How many times do I have to tell you? The first move is always a feint. It's the most basic thing to land a hit with the second move."
(To himself) "Ughh. Great. What's the point in setting the alarm if I'm going to wake up before it goes off? What a total waste. Now I've gotta shut it off but I don't feel like moving. But if I don't shut it off it will just keep ringing and ringing. It makes me tired just thinking about the whole thing. Some mornings are such a drag…"
(To Hidan) "See, you and I have different beliefs. I believe in the Will of Fire. That pathetic Lord Jashin or whatever isn't your God any more. I am. The only one bringing down vengeance is me."
(To Toren) "I heard about Lord Valdric. I lost my teacher, so it's not like I don't understand what you're going through. But whining and sulking isn't going to make things better. We're way past that point in our lives. My teacher entrusted me with many things. Some important, some petty. All sorts of things. You too, right? In fact, you must have a ton of stuff. So don't you think it's about time for us to step up? Time for us to become the ones who entrust. It's a pain, but we can't keep complaining. You will eventually be the one treating others to ramen… and you'll be called Toren-sensei, or something. We can't stay brats forever. If we want to become super cool sentinel like Asuma and Lord Valdric, that is."