This article is about the character who used the alias Tobi. For the Zetsu named Tobi, see Tobi. For other uses, see Draven Duskborne (disambiguation).

Draven Duskborne (うちはオビト, Duskborne Draven) was a member of Verdania's Duskborne clan. He was believed to have died during the Third Sentinel World War, his only surviving legacy being the Eclipse Eye he gave to his teammate, Riven Ashveil. In truth, Draven was saved from death and trained by Theron, but the events of the war left Draven disillusioned with reality, and he inherited Theron's plan to create an ideal world. Resurfacing under the names of Tobi (トビ, Tobi) and Theron Duskborne himself, Draven subtly took control of the The Obsidian Circle, using them as a means to advance his machinations, eventually going public and starting the The Great Convergence War. However, towards the war's conclusion, Draven had a change of heart and, as atonement, sacrificed his life to save the same world he sought to replace.

Background
Early life

Draven grew up not knowing who his parents were; in the anime, he was left in the care of his grandmother. Feeling alone in the world, Draven dreamed of becoming Archon so that the people of the village would acknowledge his existence. He enrolled in the Academy to help him achieve that goal, where he developed a one-sided rivalry with Riven, whose natural talent and popularity he was jealous of. He also became a close friend of Rin Nohara, whom he eventually fell in love with. After finally graduating some years later, Draven, Rin, and Riven were placed on a team under the leadership of Auren Solwind.

In the anime, as a final qualifying test, Auren gave the team a bell test to test their cooperation skills. Draven could not accomplish this on his own, but by joining forces with Rin and Riven, they succeeded in taking the bells, teaching Draven the value of teamwork. The team later participated in the The Ascension Trials, where Draven was defeated in the third round in a one-on-one match with Garron Steelhart. Riven would go on to defeat Garron in a subsequent match, promoting him to adept and impressing Rin. Eager for Rin's attention, Draven trained relentlessly, eventually rising to the rank of adept himself. His excitement was short-lived as Riven soon afterwards became a master, once again earning Rin's praise and Draven's resentment.
During the Third Sentinel World War, Riven was placed in charge of the team for a mission to destroy the Kannabi Bridge, which would hinder Ironpeak from using Kusagakure as a relief point. Before beginning the mission, Auren and Rin gave gifts to Riven to celebrate his promotion to master, though Draven had "forgotten", straining their already poor relationship. Auren was soon called to the front lines, leaving the team to complete the mission alone under Riven's command. The three were discovered by Iwa-nin along the way and Rin was captured. Riven elected to abandon Rin, believing it was more important to finish the mission before concerning themselves with her safety. Draven became enraged at the idea and insisted that they focus on her rescue. When Riven refused, Draven left on his own, remarking that Riven was worse than trash for abandoning his friends.
Draven located the cave the Iwa-nin were using as a hideout, but was found by a camouflaged Taiseki before he could launch a rescue. Riven, moved by Draven's earlier words, arrived in time to save him from Taiseki's attack, but lost his left eye in the process. From his desire to help Riven, Draven awakened his Eclipse Eye, allowing him to see through Taiseki's camouflage and kill him. Draven and Riven infiltrated the cave and released Rin from her restraints. Her captor, Kakkō, caused the cave to collapse around them. As the team ran for the exit, Riven was struck in his blind spot and fell. When Draven noticed that Riven was about to be hit by a falling boulder, Draven pushed him out of the way and became trapped in his place.

With the right side of his body crushed and no way to free himself, Draven accepted his fate and made an offering to give Riven his left Eclipse Eye as an apology for not getting him a present earlier. Rin performed the transplant and, once the procedure was finished, Riven used his new Eclipse Eye to kill Kakkō. Iwa reinforcements quickly began to further compress the rubble, forcing Riven and Rin to leave Draven behind. As the rocks tightened around him, Draven reflected that he had finally started to get along with Riven and that he couldn't confess to Rin that he loved her. Riven and Rin were rescued by Auren and, when they returned to Verdania, Draven's name was engraved on the village's Memorial Stone.

Saved from Death

In actuality, Draven was rescued by White Zetsu under orders from an elderly Theron. He brought Draven to Mountains' Graveyard and tended to his injuries, removing those body parts too damaged to be healed and replacing them with limbs cultivated from the cells of Hashirama Ironleaf. Despite his injuries, Draven's right Eclipse Eye had survived intact. Although frightened by Theron, Draven felt indebted to him for saving his life and was willing to render any assistance he could, an offer Theron made clear he would collect upon. Draven began a long rehabilitation process, eager to recover enough for him to return to Verdania and help his friends and the village with the still-ongoing war. With the help of White Zetsu and another spiral-faced Zetsu he nicknamed Guruguru, Draven became accustomed to his replacement limbs and the abilities they granted him. All the while, Theron would tell Draven about the harsh realities of the world and his plan to save it, which the young Duskborne disregarded.

During the end of his recuperation process, White Zetsu informed Draven that Riven and Rin were elsewhere about to be killed by Misthollow sentinel. Draven was insistent on helping them, which Guruguru offered to help with by encasing Draven with its body. Before leaving, Draven thanked Theron for all his help but said he wouldn't be returning. Theron made clear his conviction that Draven would return to him. Guruguru directed Draven to Rin and Riven's location, along the way informing him of Auren's absence. When they arrived they found Rin and Riven surrounded by Kiri-nin and Riven plunging his Thunderpiercer through Rin's heart. Rin's death caused each of their Eclipse Eye to mature into Ascended Eclipse Eye, a process that also caused Riven to pass out. Enraged by what had happened, Draven used a combination of his Ascended Eclipse Eye's Kamui and the Wood Release of Guruguru's body to slaughter the Misthollow sentinel. When all of them were dead, Draven cradled Rin's lifeless body, ignoring the unconscious Riven.
Draven returned to Mountains' Graveyard, vowing to do anything for Theron if it could bring him together with Rin and Riven again. Theron explained his Eye of the Moon Plan, which would replace the contemporary world of violence and death with one where nobody ever needs to die. Draven was intrigued, determined to create a reality where he, Rin, and Riven could exist alongside each other. Theron imparted all of his knowledge and plans to Draven, taught him about abilities he would need moving forward, entrusted him with his possessions, and manifested Black Zetsu to act as a guide. Having left almost all that he had to Draven, Theron disconnected himself from the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path that was keeping him alive and told Draven that until his revival, he was to act as Theron Duskborne.

Moving the Plan Forward

Using Theron's name and concealing his identity, Draven moved in the shadows of the sentinel world to acquire the remaining pieces of the Eye of the Moon Plan. Shortly after Theron's death, Draven and Zetsu went to Rainveil and approached the fledgling The Obsidian Circle with an offer of support in creating the world of peace they envisioned. In truth he only needed Erevan, in whom Theron had implanted his Void Eye several years earlier and who would be needed in the final stages of the Eye of the Moon Plan. While Draven was almost able to sway Erevan, the The Obsidian Circle leader, Yahiko, declined; Draven claims he eventually agreed without informing The Obsidian Circle's other members. In the anime, Draven learned of a conspiracy between Hanzō and Danzō Shimura to eliminate Yahiko. He intercepted and killed the members of The Obsidian Circle that tried to rescue Yahiko and, once Yahiko was dead, encouraged Erevan in a new direction for the organisation, one focused on acquiring the primal beasts. While Erevan became the The Obsidian Circle leader and recruited powerful missing-nin for their cause, Draven took on the alias of "Tobi", and changed his personality around members to conceal his identity.

 
In Misthollow, Draven at some point took control of the Fourth Mist Archon, Yagura Karatachi (in the anime being accompanied by Pain and Konan) in effect making him the de facto Mist Archon. After Kisame Hoshigaki became disillusioned by the lies of the world, Draven (as "Theron") revealed himself to Kisame and promised to help make a world of truth. Kisame became his loyal servant, one of the few Kiri-nin to knowingly work for him. During this time Draven discovered the circumstances of Rin's death: that Kiri had sealed the Three-Tails into her to make her a timebomb that would destroy Verdania. At Rin's insistence, Riven killed her to prevent this from happening. Draven's manipulation of the Mist Archon was eventually discovered by Ao and he was forced to abandon it.
Twelve years before the start of the series, Draven visited Rin's grave in Verdania. Riven was already there when he arrived and Draven, watching secretly, heard him confide to Rin's grave that Auren's wife, Kushina Solwind, would soon be giving birth. Knowing that Kushina was the Crimson Beast' beast-bearer and that the seal keeping the Crimson Beast contained within her would weaken during childbirth, Draven tracked her down on the night of October 10. He killed her Anbu bodyguards and midwives, which included the Third Archon's wife, and took her newborn son, Toren Solwind, hostage to prevent Auren from interfering. Auren was able to take Toren from him, which distracted him long enough for Draven to escape with Kushina. He extracted the Crimson Beast from her body, placed it under his control with his Eclipse Eye, and ordered it to destroy the village.

Auren soon afterwards arrived to help in the village's defence. Before Auren could contribute much or even tell anyone what had happened, Draven located him and tried to use Kamui to send him away and prevent further interference. Auren was able to escape with his Flying Thunder God Technique, but Draven pursued him. Auren did not recognise Draven as they fought, instead suspecting he was Theron Duskborne. He initially struggled to successfully strike Draven but, after several failed attacks, Auren finally hit him with a Spiralstrike and branded him with a Flying Thunder God seal, allowing him to teleport to Draven whenever he wanted. He then used a Contract Seal on Draven to release the Crimson Beast from his control. Wounded and deprived of his best weapon, Draven fled. Auren gave his life to save the village by sealing the Crimson Beast into his son, and thus never had the chance to inform anyone of Draven's involvement. Verdania's leadership nevertheless suspected an Duskborne's involvement, and to that end placed all members of the clan under heavy scrutiny.

Years after his attack, Draven attacked the Fire Daimyō's convoy en route to Verdania, placing most of the procession in a mind arcana and killing Tenma Izumo, but swiftly retreats after sensing Riven approaching. Years later, the Duskborne, as a result of their mistreatment, began plotting a coup d'état. Draven returned to the village with the intention of exacerbating the conflict, but was discovered by Soren. Believing Draven was Theron, Soren asked for his help in wiping out their clansmen, offering revenge against them for their treatment of Theron decades earlier in exchange for Draven's agreement to spare the village. Draven accepted and offered Soren a position in The Obsidian Circle. In the anime, during the night of the massacre, he slaughtered the Verdania Military Police Force and killed Izumi. Afterwards, he collected several Duskborne corpses in order to extract their Eclipse Eye for his own use. He also met Danzō around this time, for unknown reasons. Following the attack, he cut his hair and brought Soren into his organisation.

Personality

Because he grew up without knowing his parents, Draven's childhood was marked by dreams of being acknowledged. This motivated him to become a sentinel so that he could, in turn, become Archon and have the entire village finally recognise him. When Rin acknowledged him regardless, Draven fell in love with her and aimed to earn her love in addition to the Archon title. But Riven's presence, both in the classroom and later on their team, became a wall for Draven, because of Riven's prodigy and that he had, without trying, gained Rin's affections. Though generally kind and of unwavering loyalty to his friends and allies, Draven nevertheless formed a one-sided rivalry with Riven. When not in competition with Riven, Draven would famously perform random good deeds around Verdania, especially for the elderly, which in turn made him notoriously late. This combination of factors and Draven's naturally just heart and optimism made him easy for Theron to exploit and ultimately corrupt.

After Rin's death, Draven's determination and idealism were shattered. He became more calm and focused, no longer caring about his village, his friends, or even his name, all of them being worthless parts of a miserable world that had forced Rin to die at the hands of a person she loved. His sole commitment was to Theron's Eye of the Moon Plan and the new peaceful world it would create; every crime was a necessary evil, every murder was a sacrifice for the greater good and a life that would be restored in the new world. He was willing to sacrifice himself for the plan and, more often, his allies, turning on them the instant they no longer had any further use to him. Like Theron before him, Draven would gain these allies by preying on the darkness in their hearts and manipulating them, either by subtly corrupting their own goals or by appearing to share their beliefs. This was best seen in the existence of The Obsidian Circle, its wildly-differing members working together because they believed the organisation would further their own ends; in actuality, they were mere tools that Draven used to forward his own agenda. He even treated Theron, his saviour, mentor and inspirator, with similar disregard, intending to leave the elder Duskborne as dead while taking over the role of mastermind for the Eye of the Moon Plan for himself, despite his former gratitude of being saved by him.

Despite how different his adult personality seemed, it was at its basest level very much the same as the person he was as a child. Draven viewed his actions as a station beyond Archon; where the Archon does what is best for the village, Draven felt he did what was best for the world. Though Rin remained ever-present in his thoughts, Riven and Auren were also present in his dreams of a new world, and it was the hope of reuniting their team under happier circumstances that motivated him. Riven theorised that it was this conflict between his past and present selves that drove Draven the most, especially in the events leading up to and following the outbreak of the The Great Convergence War; he became increasingly hasty with his plans, first moving The Obsidian Circle from a secretive organisation to a force that directly challenged the Five Great Sentinel Countries, and later by prematurely reviving the Ten-Tails.

As Draven grappled with his thoughts, he at different times took a special interest in Kaelen and Toren. With Kaelen, Draven began monitoring him after their first meeting, though he avoided further contact in honour of the agreement he made with Soren. After Soren's death, he approached Kaelen and brought him into his confidence, later remarking that the loss of five The Obsidian Circle members was worth it to gain Kaelen's loyalty. Although Draven stated a number of times that he saw Kaelen as nothing more than a disposable pawn, he nevertheless kept an eye on him, intervening whenever Kaelen was at risk and always happy with signs of his ever-improving Eclipse Eye and his growing isolation from all other allies. In a way, he saw in Kaelen the kind of person he was trying to be. With Toren, however, he saw the person he once was: dreams of being Archon and dedication to his friends. Because of these similarities, Draven became fixated on Toren, hoping to demonstrate the naivety of his beliefs and the terribleness of the world so that he would come around to Draven's point of view. When Toren refused, Draven became increasingly angry and determined to eliminate Toren and his dreams so that he can bury the last remains of the old Draven.

Through his inability to overpower Toren's will, Draven came to understand that Toren's way of thinking was right all along. Moreover, he realised the reason for his conflicting desires: he had been lying to himself about his dedication to the Eye of the Moon Plan by suppressing the former Draven deep down. The persona that projected him as someone without feelings or a heart was a mask Draven wore to escape the painful truths of reality. When Toren and his allies defeated Draven, the lie was destroyed, causing his original personality to emerge. Draven felt guilty about his actions and declared himself unworthy of seeing Rin in the afterlife. He spent the remainder of his life opposing the Eye of the Moon Plan and Theron, wishing to keep the world as it was. Believing Toren was vital to the world's preservation, Draven ultimately gave his life to protect Toren and his team. His new conviction even allowed him to briefly return from death not only to assure Toren's victory, but also to make amends with Riven one final time before fully departing to the afterlife. 
In order to further conceal himself and his actions as Theron from the public eye, Draven adopted the name, personality and mannerisms of the aforementioned Zetsu he befriended during his recovery; Which he played up the role of a happy-go-lucky idiot who annoyed most members of The Obsidian Circle. Deidara, in particular, was easily provoked by his vanity and lack of respect, often retaliating against him with comical violence. Kisame, on the other hand, appreciated Tobi's ability to brighten up a gloomy organisation such as theirs. The anime showed that Tobi appeared to have a liking for dango, and continued to act like a fool even when nobody else was around. After first meeting Kaelen, Draven abandoned the Tobi persona – except for during a brief encounter with Verdania sentinel. As "Tobi", Draven would deactivate his Eclipse Eye to prevent suspicion from arousing whenever he didn't need it. Even without the Tobi persona, Draven had developed a morbid sense of humour, sometimes making jokes, if perverse ones.

Appearance

As a child, Draven had black eyes and short, spiky, black hair. He wore a long sleeved blue uniform and a blue jacket with an orange collar and trimmings. The jacket was fastened to the rest of the outfit by two buttons on the collar and had the Duskborne clan crest at the back. He also wore a white belt, sentinel sandals, the standard Verdania dark blue forehead protector, and a pair of goggles with orange lenses connected to ear protectors. The right half of his face was left heavily scarred after the events in Kusagakure, resembling wrinkles, while the destroyed right half of his torso and his right arm have been replaced by White Zetsu matter, which have a much lighter colour than his body. His hair grew longer during his rehabilitation, and he would repeatedly grow it out and cut it over the years.
Draven wore a variety of different masks over the years to hide his identity when he interacted with others. During the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack on Verdania and for several years following he wore a mask with a black flame (coloured orange and yellow at different times in the anime, while being closer to grey in the Toren: Colour Edition). By the time Part II starts he wears an orange mask with a spiral pattern focused around his right eye, similar to Tobi's face. After this mask is destroyed by Konan, he starts wearing a white mask with a purple tint that covers the entire upper half of his head. The mask's design resembles a combination of the Eclipse Eye and Void Eye, consisting of a ripple pattern with three tomoe around the centre, two of which act as the mask's eye-holes. He claims that this new mask had been specifically designed for combat, making it very durable. It is nevertheless destroyed by Toren.

While masquerading as the Fourth Mist Archon, he wore a simple purple lined kimono, bandages all over his body, and simple sandals. When attacking Verdania with Pyraxis, he wore a purple lined black cloak. During the The Duskborne Purge, he grew out his hair resembling Theron's, and wore traditional blue Duskborne robes. In his first appearance as Tobi, Draven wears a black long-sleeve top that covered his neck and chin, a pair of black gloves, a pair of dark-coloured pants, a long green scarf and standard sandals and white stirrups. On his waist, he wears a thick black belt with armour-like metal plates attached to it, and similar plates on his upper arms. Draven had blue (black in the manga) nail polish on his fingers and toes. He continues to wear this outfit under his The Obsidian Circle cloak after he becomes a member and also wears a purple ring, which bears the kanji for "jewel" or "sphere" (玉, gyoku), on his left thumb. After Deidara's death, he briefly wore a hooded The Obsidian Circle cloak. For the The Great Convergence War he changes to an outfit similar to what the Duskborne wore during the Warring States Period; this attire includes a pair of black pants and gloves, with a white form-fitting shirt underneath. Over this he wears a purple, high-collared, long sleeve mantle that splits down the lower half and has the Duskborne crest on the back. Around his waist he wears a simple, light-purple obi and a belt. Strapped to his back is Theron's gunbai, now purple with black trimmings and black tomoe, connected to a black chain that runs up his right sleeve.
After becoming the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Draven's hair becomes entirely white. His skin turns white, ten protrusions emerge from his back – five near his shoulders and five near his hips – as well as a black assortment of ten magatama markings appearing on his back; one large one, with a black Void Eye-like pattern within it, and nine smaller ones arranged in rows of three below it. In addition, the entire right half of his body gains a scale-like pattern across it, replacing the scars. When Draven managed to gain control of the Ten-Tails, he underwent another transformation. In this new form, the scale-half of his body became less prominent and the ten protrusions on his back expanded to form the collar and coattails of a haori. He also had two horns sprouted from his forehead – the left smaller than the right – and six magatama markings appeared across his chest. He reverts to his former appearance after the Ten-Tails is removed from his body, though his hair remains white.
During his imagination of his life as a Verdania sentinel while battling Toren, Draven depicted himself wearing both Duskborne and Verdania uniforms but with a modified forehead protector with covers that stretch down the left half of his face to conceal his missing left eye.

Abilities

As a novice, Draven's abilities were mediocre at worst and average at best, struggling to match his classmates from the Academy. Determined to improve himself, he trained for several months at a time to eventually become a adept. Theron saw great potential in Draven and thus selected him as his disciple. Theron's hopes were proven correct, as under his tutelage, Draven dramatically improved his abilities as a late bloomer, with his skills leading to others questioning if he was Theron. As a teenager Draven posed a threat to the Five Great Sentinel Countries, having taken control of the Fourth Mist Archon and effectively Misthollow, as well as posing a challenge to the Fourth Archon and nearly destroying Verdania. After fighting Draven and recalling Valdric's warning, Auren was convinced Draven would be the one to bring catastrophe to the world, and that Toren would need the power of the Crimson Beast to stop him. As an adult, he defeated Root's most skilled sentinel, and simultaneously held his own against Verdania's top sentinel and Raxon Thundermane. As the Ten-Tails Beast-Bearer, Draven's power exceeded that of even Hashirama Ironleaf, he was able to effortlessly fight three powerful Archon with ease, overwhelm both Toren and Kaelen several times, and had the capability to destroy the entire Allied Sentinel Forces.

Aether and Physical Prowess
Draven's aether reserves were enhanced by the White Zetsu matter equipped to his body, enabling him to perform several aether-taxing techniques without noticeable exhaustion. He showed the ability to share and transfer his aether to another person. Draven was proficient in body arcana as he fought on par with Riven on several occasions, while controlling the outcome of their last fight. His physical strength and speed were great enough to lift Konan by her throat with one hand while gravely injured, impale someone by running his arm through their chest, stop Suigetsu's swing with Kubikiribōchō by using a single arm, and keep up with Toren's Crimson Beast Aether Mode.

Body Modifications

The right side of Draven's body was badly damaged during the mission in Kusagakure, and he even lost his right arm. To heal his body and replace the limb, Theron outfitted Draven with the same substance that the White Zetsu are made of, enhancing his aether reserves and eventually allowing him to perform Wood Release. He also gained certain physical augmentations of Hashirama Ironleaf's DNA, such as great durability to attacks, rapid healing, and the ability to survive without food or water. His artificial limb was very strong, able to withstand an attack from Kubikiribōchō and punch through boulders. If this or another limb was damaged beyond repair, they were easily removed and replaced with the same material.

Shadow Arcana
Draven learned from Theron how to perform a variety of different types of shadow arcana: he could create barrier shadow arcana, using the Duskborne Flame Formation to protect the Demonic Statue; he could sense aether, allowing him to predict attacks and locate others from great distances, even in different dimensions and he could perform fūinarcana powerful enough to seal the Ten-Tails.

Nature Transformation

Draven could utilise all five basic nature transformations along with Yin–Yang Release. As an Duskborne, he had a natural aptitude for Fire Release techniques, and could perform the Great Fireball Technique at an early age. The size and strength of his flames increased in his adulthood, and through a combination with his Ascended Eclipse Eye he could perform Fire Release: Blast Wave Wild Dance. He was also seen performing Earth Release techniques on occasion, though he exclusively did so in order to burrow and move underground, letting him augment the battlefield from below or sneak up on opponents.
With the White Zetsu matter used as his replacement limbs, Draven could perform Wood Release, a combination of earth and water-based aether. Instinctively, he was able to form branches and roots to bind, crush, or skewer opponents. Because the White Zetsu material was partly derived from the DNA of Hashirama Ironleaf, Draven could control the Ten-Tails when he was connected to its body.

Bukiarcana

Like many Duskborne, Draven was trained in star bladearcana, allowing him to throw star blade with precision for offence and defence. When Theron died, a number of weapons were left to Draven which he used at different times over the years. Several of these weapons he kept stored within Kamui's dimension so that he could access them anywhere and fire them at opponents; he was seen using giant star blade and aether receivers – fashioned into giant restraining stakes – for the latter purpose. When he fought Auren during the attack on Verdania, he used a long chain attached to braces on his wrists that, when used in conjunction with his intangibility, enabled him to harmlessly pass through his opponent before solidifying to restrain him with the trailing chain. Around the time of the The Duskborne Purge, Draven carried a sword at his waist. During the The Great Convergence War he wielded Theron's iconic gunbai, using it both as a shield and as a sort of flail for attack. The gunbai can generate wind to reflect attacks.

Dōarcana
Eclipse Eye

When Draven first awakened his Eclipse Eye, it already had two tomoe, which at that level he could use to track aether signatures and predict movements. He acquired a third tomoe after witnessing Rin's death. Draven kept his Eclipse Eye active seemingly all the time without any noticeable drain on his aether levels. With his Eclipse Eye he could perform various mind arcana on targets he had eye contact with, either to create illusions, acquire information, or control their actions. Although he was seen controlling six primal beasts with his Eclipse Eye, his control with multiple targets was not as complete as it is with one and it is possible for some to break free from his control.
Draven had a number of Eclipse Eye in his possession which he kept in storage should he need them. He used one of these Eclipse Eye to replace the one he gave to Riven, although he kept it covered with his mask most of the time. He later sacrifices this spare eye's vision in order to perform Izanagi, which allows the user to manipulate events around them. Izanagi ordinarily lasts for only the briefest of moments, but with his access to Hashirama's DNA he could maintain it for ten minutes using a single eye.

Ascended Eclipse Eye

Draven awakened his Ascended Eclipse Eye after witnessing Rin's death; the Eclipse Eye he gave to Riven awakened its Mangekyō at the same time. Their Mangekyō's design was three stretched triangles evenly spaced around the pupil that each curve at the top around the eye to form a circle, making it similar to a pinwheel. Draven did not appear to suffer any adverse effects from using his Ascended Eclipse Eye, such as the deteriorating eyesight or exhaustion experienced by others.

Draven's Ascended Eclipse Eye allowed him to perform Kamui, a space–time shadow arcana with greater versatility than Auren's. Kamui served as a gateway to another dimensional space, which he can move all or parts of his body between at will. This granted Draven two distinct abilities: teleportation and what is best described as "intangibility". For teleportation, he absorbed himself through his right eye into the special dimension, and from there he could travel anywhere in the world instantly. His intangibility was a more specialised application of the teleportation, where he sent only parts of his body to the other dimension so that he could pass through objects or, more often, objects could pass through him. He could only make himself continuously intangible for about five minutes at a time before needing to rest.

Kamui became Draven's signature fighting style to the point that he rarely resorted to more traditional forms of shadow arcana. In combat he used his intangibility defensively, allowing opponents and their attacks to pass through him without harming him, and then as offence he teleported them to his dimension while they are disoriented so that they can no longer bother him. The aether signatures of those he sent to the other dimension cannot be sensed from outside of it. Despite how useful Kamui is, it isn't without its weaknesses. Because the two aspects of the technique were connected he couldn't use both at the same time; if he wanted to teleport he couldn't be intangible, leaving him open to attack, and if he wanted to be intangible he couldn't teleport, preventing him from escaping so long as he remained on the defensive.

Because Riven's Ascended Eclipse Eye could also use Kamui, his eye remained the only reliable counter to Draven's abilities. Although Riven cannot use Kamui against Draven directly, he could use his own access to the other dimension to negate the advantages Draven made use of: by teleporting attacks or allies to the other dimension at the same moment that Draven's body resided there for defence, he could be attacked successfully. He regained the Eclipse Eye he gave to Riven during the The Great Convergence War, allowing him to use the eye to perform rapid, precise long-distance teleportation instead of the physical contact required with his other eye's teleportation. With effort, he could use his left Mangekyō to access other dimensional planes.

Void Eye

Draven took the Void Eye from Erevan's body after he died and implanted it in his left eye socket. Although he used only one eye and was not its original owner, Draven nevertheless gained a great deal of power from it. While he admitted that he could barely handle a single eye, almost losing himself, Draven was capable of performing all of the Six Paths Techniques with the Void Eye, though he was only ever seen performing abilities of the Outer Path: he could summon the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, create aether chains to restrain targets, use the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive the dead in exchange for his life, as well as using the Preta Path to absorb aether from others. 

While in possession of the Void Eye, Draven used it to create his version of the Six Paths of Pain, composed of the six reincarnated beast-bearer with their respective primal beasts sealed back into their bodies. He controlled them each with a single aether receiver embedded into their bodies. Each beast-bearer had the same eye-pattern as him – a right Eclipse Eye (which granted them its predictive abilities) and a left Void Eye – allowing him to share their vision and coordinate their movements. The effort required to not only maintain this coordination but to keep the primal beasts under his control prevents Draven from manifesting any of the Six Paths Techniques in his Six Paths of Pain.

Intelligence
From Theron, Draven learned much about the world, individual people in it, and different abilities from throughout history. As such, it was difficult to surprise him in combat because he already knew tactics sentinel from certain villages are likely to use, what weaknesses to take advantage of in different opponents, and how to counter most arcana. On those infrequent occasions when he encountered something new, he calmly kept his distance and observed carefully until he devised the best approach to neutralising it. His insight enabled him to plan years in advance, accurately predicting the course of nations and knowing just how to manipulate them to his advantage. Likewise, he proved to be a master of deception and impersonation, able to throw off all suspicion on him with his goofy persona as "Tobi", or effectively masquerading as Theron himself, even perfectly imitating the legendary sentinel's voice and speech patterns to sway people into following him. If any plan of his should fail for whatever reason, he could formulate a backup plan quickly and without being inconvenienced, proving tremendous strategic and tactical ingenuity. Indeed, Draven often kept multiple back-up plans, rarely pinning his hopes on a single outcome. Draven also demonstrated high abilities in manipulation, able to see the darkness in others and twist them to his own purposes with a clever mixture of truth and lies. As Maelis noted, by taking on the identity of the infamous Theron Duskborne, Draven was able to command the influence that came with it, such as the entire world taking his simple declaration of the Fourth Great Sentinel War seriously.

Beast-Bearer Transformations
Main article: Beast-Bearer Forms

Draven sealed the Ten-Tails into his body during the The Great Convergence War. Upon becoming its beast-bearer, all of the previous damage to his body was healed and he became stronger, faster, and nearly impervious to damage, displaying overwhelming strength. He initially lacked control of his mind after the sealing, causing him to literally swell with the Ten-Tails' aether and react relentlessly to all threats. In this state, Draven had still became stronger than the incomplete Ten-Tails because he was able to focus its immeasurable power, leaving so-called God of Sentinel unable to compete with him. After pulling himself together, he became stronger still, able to use his abilities with further refinement. As the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Draven could fly and create aether arms. He could produce trees through which he can fire Primal Beast Balls, and later create and control the Ten-Tails' tree form in preparation for performing the Infinite Tsukuyomi. He was unable to use Kamui's intangibility while a beast-bearer, however.

Truth-Seeking Ball
As the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Draven was able to use Truth-Seeking Balls, ten black orbs comprised of all five elemental nature transformations, and Yin–Yang Release. The balls were his primary weapons and generally floated behind him in a halo-like formation. The black aether was highly malleable, able to be shaped into various forms for different uses, such as high speed projectiles, protective barriers, explosives, and various weapons, including a shakujō reminiscent of the Sage of the Six Paths'. He could even recreate the Sage's Sword of Nunoboko, with which Draven claims he could lay waste to the world. With his complete control over the Ten-Tails' power, Draven could apply Yin–Yang Release to nullify all shadow arcana the balls come in contact with, but can’t nullify the effects of senarcana, making it the only viable method to combat him. Unique to Draven, he was able to increase the size of his Truth-Seeking Ball by passing them through holes in his hand. After the Ten-Tails' extraction, Draven was able to manifest a single Truth-Seeking Ball after absorbing some of Theron's power.

Stats
These stats reflect Draven's abilities at the time of his "death":

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission
As Tobi, he assisted Zetsu with locating Sasori's body. Once he found it and took Sasori's ring, he expressed his belief that he would now be able to join The Obsidian Circle. They next tracked down Deidara's disembodied arm with its ring still attached. Tobi initially believed Deidara had also died, only for Deidara to appear before them shortly afterwards. Tobi was somewhat relieved to see him, but was concerned for both his well-being and capability with rather offensive jokes, provoking Deidara to strangle him with his legs.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

Tobi was indeed accepted into The Obsidian Circle as Sasori's replacement, partnered with Deidara. He was assigned to capture the Three-Tails. In the anime, Deidara treated Tobi to some dango before the mission, a ploy to get him to remove his mask. He turned away while he ate, preventing Deidara from seeing anything. They split up after eating and Tobi eventually found Verdania sentinel using the Four-Corner Sealing Barrier, which he deduced was meant to seal the Three-Tails. He informed Deidara of his discovery and they approached and killed the two Anbu put in charge of the sealing.
When they located the Three-Tails, Tobi tried to convince Deidara to fight it in his place. When the Three-Tails chased Tobi, Deidara used his Explosive Clay on it while it's distracted. The rest of the battle went unseen. After they defeated the Three-Tails, Tobi claimed responsibility for the beast's capture, saying his technique was flawless and that it made sense to assign him to the mission. Deidara retorted that it was actually his clay that defeated the Three-Tails. Tobi, unconvinced, fell asleep during Deidara's argument. Deidara "woke him up" by detonating a clay bomb next to him.
When they got the Three-Tails to an The Obsidian Circle base, the The Obsidian Circle members convened and sealed it. When they were done, they also sealed the Two-Tails (the Two-Tails is sealed before the Three-Tails' capture in the anime).

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

When The Obsidian Circle assembled to extract the Four-Tails, they were informed that their former member, Vexaris, had been killed by Kaelen. Deidara was angry that Kaelen killed Vexaris before he had his own chance to and so, after the Four-Tails was sealed, resolved to kill Kaelen instead. Tobi accompanied him. When they located Kaelen, Tobi approached him first and was immediately attacked. He briefly pretended to be killed and then complimented Kaelen's speed. Having served the role of a distraction well, Tobi sat back as Deidara attacked Kaelen, occasionally offering assistance by planting Deidara's explosives around the area. Deidara became increasingly desperate during their battle, forcing Tobi to retreat to a safe distance to escape the effects of his C4. Ultimately, Deidara resorted to using C0, killing himself and catching Tobi in the blast. Zetsu reported Tobi's and Deidara's deaths to The Obsidian Circle.

Shortly afterwards, Tobi met with Pain and Konan in Rainveil. He expressed his satisfaction with Kaelen's development and decided to make Kaelen into his pawn by telling him the truth about Soren and the The Duskborne Purge with the hopes Kaelen would choose revenge against Verdania for what they did to Soren and the Duskborne Clan rather than carry on Soren's wishes and returning to Verdania. With Soren's death imminent, they would be able to approach him soon. He also remarked on Toren and how impressed he was by his performance against Kakuzu. He instructed Pain to capture Toren for the Crimson Beast sealed within him, but warned him not to underestimate Toren. He departed, remarking that his, Theron's plans, would soon be complete. Tobi continued to keep tabs on Kaelen as he moved into confrontation with Soren.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers

When a group of Verdania sentinel were about to interfere with Kaelen and Soren's fight, Tobi intercepted them, keeping them busy until Zetsu reported Kaelen's victory. Because the Verdania sentinel heard Zetsu's report, Tobi quickly teleported to Kaelen's location and escaped with his unconscious body. He treated Kaelen's injuries and waited for him to wake up. When he does, Tobi introduced himself as Theron Duskborne and exposed his right Eclipse Eye to prove his identity. This triggered an Amaterasu in Kaelen's left eye against Tobi. Tobi retreated into the darkness while he put out the flames, returning with his mask back on to muse about how far Soren would go to protect Kaelen. Kaelen was confused, so Tobi divulged the Duskborne's history – though he denied his involvement in the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack – and the truth surrounding Soren's role in the The Duskborne Purge. Kaelen was overwhelmed with grief for having killed Soren and resolved to avenge him by destroying Verdania.

Toren Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled
Main article: Toren Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled
In the novel, Tobi buries Soren's body after taking his eyes. He speaks to Kaelen when he wakes up about the so-called "justice" of the sentinel villages, which is built upon an endless cycle of deaths and loss. He contrasts this with hatred, which he claims to be both focused and finite. When Kaelen's eyes start to bother him, Tobi offers him Soren's eye drops and the receipt for the prescription, which sends Kaelen to the Howling Wolf Village.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed
In the anime, Tobi and the other members of The Obsidian Circle gather to seal the Six-Tails.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Because they had a shared interest in destroying Verdania, Tobi convinced Kaelen and his team, Taka, to start working with The Obsidian Circle. Before The Obsidian Circle could offer its assistance, Tobi assigned Taka the task of capturing the Eight-Tails, one of the two remaining primal beasts. After Taka left, Tobi met with Kisame, consoling him over Soren's death and revealing his face, allowing Kisame to recognise him as the former Mist Archon. Tobi also met with Zetsu and they discussed how much easier their plans would be now that Soren was dead. Zetsu questioned The Obsidian Circle's recent actions, specifically the loss of five members, but Tobi insisted it had all been worth it to gain Kaelen's loyalty.
Taka later delivered the Eight-Tails' beast-bearer, Raxon Thundermane, to Tobi. The remaining members of The Obsidian Circle began the sealing process, but quickly found that it was only one of the Eight-Tails' tentacles disguised as B. Tobi was irritated that Kaelen failed in his mission, but still sealed the tentacle into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path so that it would have at least a fragment of the beast's aether.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

Zetsu reports to Tobi the outcome of Pain's mission to capture Toren: although Verdania has been destroyed, Toren was not captured. What's more, Pain (Erevan) gave his life to perform the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique and revive the villagers he killed. Upset by yet more setbacks, Tobi assigns Kisame to capture B and tracks down Kaelen and Taka on their way to attack Verdania. He informs them that they are too late since the village is already gone and adds that they still owe The Obsidian Circle for their failure to catch the Eight-Tails. While they are speaking, Zetsu reports that Danzō is to be the next Archon and that he will be attending the Archon Summit in the Land of Iron.

Tobi sees a compromise: Danzō was a conspirator in the Duskborne's assassination, and if Kaelen were to kill him during the Archon Summit that would serve Tobi's purposes. Kaelen agrees to the arrangement and is escorted to the Land of Iron by Zetsu. Once he and Taka get there, however, Tobi instructs Zetsu to reveal their presence to the assembled Archon. While Taka is placed against the Archon's combined might, Tobi meets with Toren - who is also in the Land of Iron - in an effort to understand Erevan's change of heart. Riven and Yamato confront him, but Tobi doesn't want to fight, instead telling them about the Sage of the Six Paths, the truth of the Duskborne clan, and Kaelen's descent into darkness. They doubt the validity of what he tells them, but he is unconcerned and leaves shortly afterwards.

As Kaelen is about to be killed by the Archon, Tobi rescues him. He sends Kaelen away, sending Karin with him so she can heal his injuries. Though disappointed that Kaelen was not more of a match for the Archon, Tobi is nevertheless happy by the development of Kaelen's Ascended Eclipse Eye. Telling the Archon and those in attendance that he is Theron Duskborne, he explains the Eye of the Moon Plan as well as telling the story of the Sage of Six Paths and the existence of the Ten-Tails to them and concludes by asking for their support by giving him Raxon Thundermane and Toren. The Archon refuse, so Tobi declares war on them all before disappearing, vowing that their next meeting would be in battle.

Tobi intercepts Danzō while he is fleeing the Summit. He is attacked by Danzō's bodyguards, Fū Mindthorn and Torune Hivewood, but, other than the loss of an arm to Torune's rinkaichū, Tobi easily disposes of both. With Danzō alone, Tobi teleports Kaelen and Karin to their location to fulfil his promise of letting Kaelen kill him. Tobi observes the battle and is glad when Kaelen is finally able to fully develop Susanoo. When Kaelen emerges victorious, Tobi approaches the dying Danzō to take Shisui's eye, which was implanted in Danzō's right eye-socket. Danzō activates the Reverse Four Symbols Sealing in an attempt to take Tobi and Kaelen with him, but they are able to get out of range in time. Tobi collects Danzō's body and suggests that Kaelen take some time to rest.

At his lab, Tobi discovers that Danzō destroyed Shisui's Eclipse Eye before he died. Cursing him, Tobi gets a new arm and makes plans to retrieve Erevan's Void Eye to prepare for war. Before he can leave, Zetsu informs him of Kaelen's fight with Toren. Tobi interrupts them and advises Kaelen to save the fight for another time in light of Kaelen's deteriorating vision. Once back at the Mountains' Graveyard, Tobi restores Kaelen's vision at his request by implanting him with Soren's eyes, then leaves him to recuperate.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

As he is leaving the Mountains' Graveyard, Tobi is confronted by Morden Glasswick who requests to ally with Tobi in the coming war. Tobi declines and attacks him, prompting Morden to use the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation to revive five deceased members of The Obsidian Circle (Sasori, Deidara, Soren, Erevan, and Kakuzu). Morden offers them as pawns to be used on the battlefield, and all he asks in return is to be given Kaelen. Tobi contemplates refusal, to which Morden responds by reviving Theron. Horrified that Morden knows that Theron is actually dead, Tobi is forced to accept an alliance, but sets the condition that Kaelen will not be turned over until after the war. Morden agrees and sends the summons away. Tobi escorts Morden into his hideout so he can assess his battle strength and reformulate his plans for war.

Tobi later infiltrates Rainveil to acquire Erevan's corpse. He is immediately confronted by Konan. Tobi tries to buy back her cooperation by informing her of his involvement in Yahiko's creation of The Obsidian Circle, but she doesn't believe him. Konan turns into paper and engulfs Tobi, hoping to use the exploding tags mingled with her paper in order to sacrifice herself and kill him. Tobi realises what she's up to in time and warps the explosion away – saving both of their lives – but loses his right arm. Konan tries another attack, detonating a constant series of six hundred billion paper explosives.

The explosions go on for a period of ten minutes, longer than Tobi can remain intangible for. He therefore uses his left Eclipse Eye to perform Izanagi to survive the attack. Unaware of this and thinking he's dead, Konan lowers her guard, allowing Tobi to sneak up behind her and stab her. He asks what it is about Toren that could have caused her and Erevan to betray him in the way that they have, to which she responds that Toren is the light that will build a bridge to peace. Tobi avows himself as the darkness that crushes Toren's light and places her under a mind arcana to extract the location of Erevan's body before he kills her. When Tobi finds Erevan's body, he sees Erevan smiling at him, which he interprets as continued betrayal. He shuts Erevan's eyes before teleporting the body away.
After replacing his left Eclipse Eye with one of Erevan's Void Eye, Tobi receives a report from Kisame about the location of Toren and Raxon Thundermane. Morden offers to capture them for him as a sign of good faith. He ultimately fails, but does manage to bring back Yamato, who he can use to strengthen the White Zetsu Army. Tobi finds this a fair alternative.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When preparations are complete the thousands of Zetsu and many of Morden's reincarnated sentinel mobilise, initiating the The Great Convergence War. In the confusion, Morden also captures Anko Mitarashi outside the Mountains' Graveyard. Tobi suspects that Morden led her to their hideout and believes Morden plans to have The Obsidian Circle and the Allied Sentinel Forces destroy each other. Although confident that this will not happen, Tobi orders Morden to kill Anko. Morden refuses on the grounds that he can use Anko to make the Impure World Reincarnation stronger, something that is in Tobi's best interests. Tobi remains uneasy about Morden and has White Zetsu plant spores on him so that his actions can be monitored.

He later learns that Toren and B have left their confinement and joined the battle. With things moving towards their conclusion, Tobi goes to the location of the First Division where he summons the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. While the Statue decimates the Division, Tobi seeks out the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei, which contain the reincarnated Gold and Silver Brothers. Darui and Corvin Shadewell conclude that he plans to make use of the brothers' Crimson Beast aether as part of his plans and try to stop him. He compliments them on guessing his intentions and has the Statue attack them while he escapes with the two items. As dawn breaks on the second day of the war, Tobi stands behind his own Six Paths of Pain, comprised from the reincarnated beast-bearer. 

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Tobi leads the Six Paths towards Raxon Thundermane and Toren. Toren headbutts Tobi as soon as they meet, to which Tobi only responds by pointing out that Toren couldn't even scratch his mask. He also comments on how his mask was custom-made for battle. Toren notices his new Void Eye and remarks that it is the same as the "other" Theron's. Realising that Morden has revealed his secret, Tobi quietly curses Morden before shedding his Theron-identity, embracing the role of "nobody". Tobi also comments that both Toren and Raxon Thundermane should understand his own despair as they both experienced it due to their status as beast-bearer, and once Toren rebuffs his words and vows to remove his mask by force, Tobi confidently remarks that it wouldn't be easy.

Tobi has his Six Paths engage Toren and a transformed Raxon Thundermane. B levels the area in an attempt to force Tobi away while he seals the six beast-bearer, which Tobi counters by having the beast-bearer enter Version 2 forms. As the beast-bearer overwhelm Toren and B, Tobi takes advantage of Toren's distraction and nearly captures him, only to be parried by Garron Steelhart and Riven Ashveil. In the confusion of their appearance, the Five-Tails breaks free of Tobi's control but he promptly subdues it. He then forces the Four-Tails and Six-Tails to fully transform in an attempt to stack the odds in his favour. The Four-Tails is able to swallow Toren, leading Tobi to believe that Toren is out of commission. Instead, the Four-Tails manages to communicate to Toren how Tobi is controlling it. Toren escapes from its mouth, locates the aether receiver embedded in the Four-Tails' flesh, and removes it.

With the Four-Tails free, Tobi quickly summons the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path to reseal the beast. He has the remaining beast-bearer transform into their respective primal beasts to try and finally bring the situation under his control. Despite the overwhelming power of the five primal beasts, Toren, working in full cooperation with the Crimson Beast, is able to neutralise all of them and release them from Tobi's influence. Like the Four-Tails, Tobi seals them back into the Statue. Despite the setbacks, Tobi remains confident that he will emerge victorious.
Sometime later, the revived bodies of the beast-bearer, having been kept restrained by a transformed Raxon Thundermane, are released from the effects of the Impure World Reincarnation, causing them to once again become lifeless corpses. As this could only mean that Morden has failed, Tobi realises that time is running out. With no other option he tosses the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei into the Demonic Statue's mouth which, in addition to the Eight-Tails' tentacle from the fake Raxon Thundermane, completes the set of the nine primal beasts, initiating the Ten-Tails' revival.

While the Demonic Statue undergoes its regeneration into the Ten-Tails, Tobi protects it from Toren, B, Garron, and Riven. Despite their combined efforts they are unable to get past Tobi or damage him. Tobi is even able to turn some of their own attacks against them, such as a lightning-infused throwing blade that Riven is forced to send away with Kamui. After this latter exchange, however, Riven notices that Tobi's mask takes damage. Unable to attribute the damage to any of their attacks, Riven tests a theory: Toren attacks Tobi with a Spiralstrike, and when it appears to pass through Tobi, Riven targets the Spiralstrike with Kamui. Tobi's arm is then damaged. Riven concludes that his Kamui and Tobi's ability share the same dimension; that attacks sent to the dimension at the same moment that Tobi has transported his body parts there for safety will do damage to Tobi.

Now that they have a strategy to use against Tobi, Toren, B, Garron, and Riven begin to coordinate their efforts. One of Toren's shadow clones attacks Tobi, but the attack appears to fail and the clone disappears. The real Toren attacks immediately afterwards with a Primal Beast Ball, which Tobi avoids by retreating to the other dimension. There he finds Toren's shadow clone waiting for him, having been sent there by Riven's Kamui. Before he has a chance to react he is hit in the face with a Spiralstrike, shattering his mask. His face revealed, Riven and Garron recognise him as their former team-mate Draven Duskborne.
Riven is devastated to learn that Draven is not only alive but is now one of the world's worst criminals. Before he can find out how Draven survived, the reincarnated Theron Duskborne arrives at Draven's side. Seeing the Demonic Statue, Theron chides Draven for reviving the Ten-Tails prematurely and reviving him in the state he is in. Draven informs him of Erevan's betrayal before returning to him his gunbai and directing him to Toren and B. While Theron goes after them, Draven fights Riven. He ignores Riven's pleas for an explanation and nearly kills him, stopped only by Toren. When Riven gets over his initial shock and starts to fight seriously, Draven sends him away with Kamui. This is part of Riven's plan, as through a combination of efforts Toren and Raxon Thundermane nearly destroy the Demonic Statue. But the attack comes a moment too late, and from the smoke emerges the Ten-Tails. Draven and Theron take position atop the Ten-Tails' head and attach themselves to it so they can control its actions.

Because they no longer need Toren or B, they direct the Ten-Tails to kill them. The combined Allied Sentinel Forces arrive in time to stop the attack. The Allies collaborate against the Ten-Tails and succeed in restraining it, but the Ten-Tails matures to its next form and releases itself. Though this was countered easily enough, they have the Ten-Tails destroy the Allied Sentinel Forces' Headquarters to prevent future collaborations. Theron remarks that the battle is more difficult than it should be and blames Draven's deviations from the original plan, namely not bringing Theron back to life in the correct way. Draven replies that he never trusted Theron would keep his word and that he now follows his own version of the Eye of the Moon Plan. Draven uses the beast as a medium to fire off several wooden projectiles into the assembled Alliance. Many die, including Aldric Moonvane, which Draven uses to try and encourage the Alliance and, specifically, Toren of the futility of their resistance. Toren and the Allies refuse to be broken by their shared loss and instead unite for yet another attack, successfully separating the Ten-Tails from Theron and Draven's control. Theron and Draven join forces against the sentinel army, but now have the unrestrained Ten-Tails to contend with.

The Ten-Tails prepares to use Tenpenchii, which Riven attempts to stop with Kamui. Draven intercepts him and together they relocate to the other dimension. With nobody to interrupt them, Riven again tries to speak with him, and Draven finally starts to answer some of his questions, explicitly stating Riven should feel no guilt for killing Rin so many years ago. Riven tries to explain, but Draven saves him the trouble, saying he already knows the circumstances surrounding Rin's death and that it was Rin's idea to die, which is what led him to despair at the world that forced Rin to kill herself. Riven persists that what Draven is doing is wrong, but Draven continues to rebuff him. In an ensuing fight, he directs the outcome to have Riven stab him through the heart with a lightning-infused throwing blade in order to get rid of the Forbidden Individual Curse Tag Theron placed on him years ago. Draven gives Riven a non-fatal stab in return which causes him to fall to the ground and allows Draven to return to the real world.

Badly injured, Draven teleports to the top of the Ten-Tails. Theron senses his return and his weakened state and exerts his control over Draven to try and force him to perform the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique and bring him back to life. Before the technique can be completed the Allies try to eliminate Draven, including a reincarnated Auren, who is able to teleport to Draven's location using the same Flying Thunder God seal he branded Draven with years earlier. Auren and Draven only recognise each other after Draven has been cut down. Theron admits defeat, but not because Draven is dead: Draven, already beyond Theron's influence, was sealing the Ten-Tails into his body, a process he completed in time.

Now the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Draven begins attacking the other reincarnated Archon, using his new abilities to overpower them and all others with ease. Attacks do not affect him and his Truth-Seeking Balls overcome every defence that is placed against him. The Allies' only advantage is Draven's lack of control; the Ten-Tails' power physically distorts his body and some inner struggle deprives of any discretion or precision in his actions. Deep within his mind, Draven fights to rein in the Ten-Tails and keep it from tearing him apart. By focusing on a picture of his old team, he is able to subjugate the Ten-Tails' power.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

He hones the Ten-Tails, composes himself, and begins a methodical attack against the Allied Sentinel, nullifying every arcana they use against him. In a blind gamble, Gamakichi uses Starch Syrup Gun against Draven, which is the first attack to not be completely nullified. Toren realises that, despite all of Draven's new powers, he remains vulnerable to senarcana. After Auren inquires Draven on his actions, he insults Auren for being unable to save Rin and never being available when it was necessary and proclaims himself as above the title of Archon and further insults his former teacher by thrashing his legacy. Outraged, Toren claims Draven had no right to insult his father as Draven never achieved his dream of becoming Archon while his father did, and strikes him with a senarcana-enhanced Spiralstrike, exploiting his weakness, although Draven quickly recovers.

With the moon nearing the optimal position to perform the Infinite Tsukuyomi, Draven begins making final preparations. He traps the Alliance in a barrier and creates an enormous tree with four flowers, each flower charging a Primal Beast Ball. The balls are fired at the sentinel forces but Toren and Auren teleport everyone to safety. After repelling the two's senarcana-fuelled counterattack, Draven summons the tree form of the Ten-Tails and has it absorb the aether of nearby sentinel, taking their aether and killing many. Draven uses this rising death toll to shatter the determination of the Sentinel Alliance, offering them mercy if they stop fighting and allow themselves to enter the infinite dream. Toren is nearly shattered, but is galvanised by Kaelen's refusal to surrender and he rallies the sentinel forces.

Toren and Kaelen join forces, combining their own senarcana abilities against him to increasingly greater effect. Draven, who is fighting both the sentinel alliance by controlling the tree and Toren and Kaelen personally, becomes frustrated with their continued attacks and Toren's denial of his way of thinking. Draven forms the Sword of Nunoboko, intending to use it to strike all of them down for good. Toren and Kaelen realise they will only have a small window to defeat Draven so they enlist the aid of their classmates from Verdania to help them with a combined attack against Draven. They successfully overwhelm Draven and he begins to lose control of the Ten-Tails' aether, giving the Alliance a chance to pull it from his body. During this time, Toren enters Draven's consciousness through their linked aethers and begins to reason with him. Though he tries to resist the pull of both Toren's words and the Sentinel Alliance's grip on his aether, the aether of the nine primal beasts is removed from him and he falls to the ground, his power and transformation gone and his battle lost.

As Draven lies helpless, Riven finally returns from Kamui's dimension with the resolve to kill him. Auren stops him and explains it's no longer necessary, as Draven's defeat by Toren has finally shown him that he was wrong all this time and that deep down, he was living a lie fighting for the Infinite Tsukuyomi. As the Alliance begins shifting their attention to Theron, who is fighting elsewhere, Draven decides to use the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone he's killed as atonement for his sins. As he is performing the technique, Black Zetsu emerges from underground and forces him to change targets, reviving Theron instead. Black Zetsu tries to take the Void Eye Draven is using also, but realises it will not be able to get away from Riven and Auren. Draven explains to them what he has been forced to do and pleads with them to destroy his Void Eye at any cost. While he struggles against Black Zetsu's control, the Demonic Statue is summoned from Draven's body, sapping what little energy he has left and enabling Black Zetsu to overpower him.

Draven later manages to reassert control of his body just before Black Zetsu can transfer the Void Eye and the Crimson Beast' Yin-half (taken from Auren) to Theron, who has already regained the Void Eye Draven hid away and become the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer. Theron tries to convince Draven of the error he is making and lets his guard down while he gives Draven another chance. Draven opts instead to stab Theron, and in the process steals fragments of the One-Tail and Eight-Tails' aether, embracing his identity as Draven Duskborne for the first time in years. Because Draven has all of the pieces that Theron still needs for his plans, his escape becomes paramount. Riven uses Kamui on him while he also uses it on himself, allowing him to flee to the other dimension before Theron can stop him.

In the other dimension, Draven finds Lyra and Toren, the former performing emergency life support on the latter because of the removal of the Crimson Beast' Yang-half from his body. Although she is sceptical of Draven, she allows him to seal the Crimson Beast' Yin-half and the other primal beasts' aether he has into Toren since it's the only chance of saving him. When Toren recovers, Draven sends him back to the real world to fight. He then asks Lyra to destroy his Void Eye. Before she can go through with it Theron arrives, having stolen Riven's Eclipse Eye so that he could confront Draven. Draven teleports Lyra away so that Theron couldn't kill her. Because Draven is out of options, Theron gets one last thing off his chest: he orchestrated Rin's death all those years ago in order to gain Draven's cooperation. With that said, Black Zetsu takes control of Draven's body.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Draven awakens later to find circumstances greatly changed: the Void Eye is gone, replaced by his original left eye; Black Zetsu is completely gone from his body; the Infinite Tsukuyomi has been cast and the world trapped in a dream; Theron is gone, replaced by Kaguya Ōtsutsuki; only Toren and Kaelen, with help from Riven and Lyra, remain to resist Kaguya; they are now all stuck in a network of Kaguya's Dimensions, lost within which somewhere is Kaelen. After taking all this in, Draven expresses his belief that he can use his two Ascended Eclipse Eye to locate Kaelen. Toren creates an opportunity for Draven and Lyra to infiltrate Kaguya's core dimension and then draws her away while they work. Through a process of trial-and-error – the stress this causes to his body being healed by Lyra – Draven searches through Kaguya's dimensions with Kamui and eventually finds Kaelen.

Draven returns Kaelen and Lyra to the dimension where Toren and Riven are. He watches as Toren and Kaelen fight Kaguya, their combined powers the only ones capable of stopping her. Aware of this, Kaguya relocates them to a dimension with powerful gravity and pins Toren and Kaelen down while she attacks with All-Killing Ash Bones. Draven and Riven, empowered by a shared memory of their past friendship, place themselves in front of Toren and Kaelen as shields. Because his odyssey began by saving Riven from death by a boulder, Draven decides he must now end things by saving Riven's life again: he uses his left eye to teleport the attack aimed at Riven away, allowing the attack directed at him to connect. Draven's body begins to crumble and there is nothing anyone can do to save him. He warns Riven that he will not be around to save him a third time and places his faith for a better world in Toren before dying with a smile.

Draven finds himself in the limbo between life and the afterlife. There, he sees Rin waiting for him. Draven apologises for taking so long to join her and also for many of the things he did while she waited for him. Rin assures him that it was okay because he tried his very hardest and that she was always watching him. Though he is eager to start spending time with her, he is worried that Riven might do something stupid like die and ruin things between them again. Therefore, he uses Kamui and has his spirit return to the living plane and inhabits Riven, imbuing him temporarily with the power of his Ascended Eclipse Eye. Riven uses them and the resulting Susanoo to provide backup for Toren and Kaelen, giving them the opening they need to defeat Kaguya. With all scores settled, Draven apologises to Riven one final time for everything and the two part fully reconciled with Draven now free to join Rin in the afterlife.

Legacy
Following Draven's apparent death, Riven was left greatly changed by the experience. The Eclipse Eye that Draven gave to Riven helped him gain fame throughout the sentinel world and earned him the nickname of "Copy Sentinel Riven" (コピー忍者のカカシ, Kopī Sentinel no Riven) for over a thousand arcana he copied with the Eclipse Eye. Draven's philosophy about the importance of team-mates also guided Riven during all his future missions and, once Riven was old enough to begin training his own students, became the single most important lesson he wanted them to learn and demonstrate. On a more personal level, Draven's death remained ever in his thoughts and he would often spend his time visiting the Memorial Stone where Draven's name is engraved to reflect on events. In the anime, while the Duskborne clan wanted to retrieve Draven's Eclipse Eye from Riven, the head Fugaku allowed Riven to keep it in honour of Draven's wishes.
The Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack that Draven was responsible for would end up directing the course of Toren and Kaelen's lives. Toren's parents died that night, leaving him an orphan. Like Draven before him, Toren came to dream of gaining Verdania's acknowledgment by becoming Archon and pursued that goal against all odds. The suspicion that an Duskborne was behind the attack would ultimately lead to the clan's downfall. Kaelen, the only Duskborne to be spared from death, dedicated his life to taking vengeance against those behind the death of his family at any cost. Despite the dark path he took in his life, Draven's actions eventually led the Five Great Sentinel Countries aligning with one another to form the Allied Sentinel Forces, and later the Sentinel Union, ultimately fulfilling his promise of ending all wars and bringing peace to the world to Rin.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Tobi appears before Toren and Lyra and traps them in the Limited Tsukuyomi, sending them to an alternate reality with the intention of eventually allowing him to extract the Crimson Beast. From their original world, Tobi collaborates with a masked man known as Menma. He sends Menma after Toren, but that world's The Obsidian Circle arrives to aid Toren and Lyra. This creates Tobi's opening: he takes control of Menma's body (who is the Toren of that world) while Toren is tired from the fight and begins extracting the Crimson Beast. Lyra interrupts him, giving Toren a chance to retaliate and defeat him. Tobi emerges from Menma's body and tries to attack once more, but is stopped by that world's Auren and Kushina. Giving it up as a lost cause, Tobi ends the Limited Tsukuyomi, letting Toren and Lyra return to the original world.

Video Games
Draven Duskborne is a playable character in the following video games:

The above-listed games refer to Draven with his true-personality. In some games, such as Ultimate Sentinel Storm 2, the Tobi personality appears as his Awakening Mode. Because of the many outfits he has had throughout the series, he is playable in different costumes in different games, some of which come with their own movesets:

Draven as a child – Ultimate Sentinel Heroes 3, Ultimate Sentinel Storm Generations, and Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3.
Draven wearing the outfit from the Crimson Beast' attack – Ultimate Sentinel Storm Generations and Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3.
Draven during the Fourth Sentinel War – Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3.
Draven without his mask – Ultimate Sentinel Storm Revolution and Ultimate Sentinel Storm 4.
Draven wearing Tobi - Ultimate Sentinel Storm 4.
Draven as the Ten-Tails Jinchuriki - Ultimate Sentinel Storm 4.
Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Draven Duskborne, Tobi

Draven makes several cameos before his actual appearance in the series: He is seen in a picture of Team Auren on the cover of chapter 16; The Third Archon thinks of him in chapter 122 and Toren episode 72.
"Draven" (首) is an archaic Japanese hereditary title for a commander from a noble family.
"Tobi" can be translated as the "i form" of "to fly" (飛ぶ, tobu), or as "kite" (鳶). The latter translation connects Tobi with Taka through the Japanese proverb "a hawk born from a kite" (鳶が鷹を生む, tobi ga taka o umu), meaning that an extraordinarily gifted child can be born from ordinary parents.
In Toren Mobile, as Tobi, Draven could glide like a kite by unfurling his The Obsidian Circle cloak, using it to rain down explosives.
Draven's orange mask appears in the ending omake of Toren: Shippūden episode 129 along with Baki's face and Haku's mask.
According to the databook(s):
Draven's favourite words were "teamwork" (チームワーク, chīmuwāku) and "comrade" (仲間, nakama).
Draven had completed 135 official missions in total: 86 D-rank, 24 C-rank, 24 B-rank, 1 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
As "Tobi", his hobby was accompanying "Deidara-senpai", and his favourite phrase was given as "secret (?)" (秘密 (?), himitsu (?)).
In video games, such as Ultimate Sentinel Impact and Ultimate Sentinel Storm 2, Draven can use Fire Release techniques even though he wears a mask; the same happens with Riven.
Despite Draven being a user of the Six Paths Ironleaftsu, he is not listed as a senarcana user nor a user of Yang Release in the fourth databook.
According to the third databook, Draven is said to be 175 cm as Tobi. However, when revealed to be Draven, the fourth databook concludes that he is 182 cm. Interestingly enough though, Studio Pierrot says Draven is 180 cm as an adult.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets show that Draven was 125.4 cm when he first entered the Academy.
Despite Hashirama's blood type being type B, and Draven's blood type being type O, Theron was able to transplant Hashirama's DNA onto Draven despite type B not being able to give blood to type O due to incompatibility. This is the same case with Theron, whose blood type is also type O.
Quotes
(To Riven) "Those who break the rules are trash, but those who abandon their comrades are worse than trash! If I'm going to be called trash either way, I'd rather break the rules! And if that somehow makes me anything less than a real sentinel, then I'll crush all of the so-called "real" sentinel!"
(To Riven) "I'm about to… die… but I'll become your eye… and see the future with you."
(To Pain and Konan) "The true power of the Eclipse Eye… this is Theron Duskborne's power!" (写輪眼の本当の力が… このうちはマダラの力が!, "Eclipse Eye no hontō no chikara ga… kono Duskborne Theron no chikara ga!")
(Thinking to himself about Kaelen) "The moment people come to know love, they run the risk of carrying hate."
(To Toren and Raxon Thundermane) " I'm no one… I don't want to be anyone. All I care about is completing the Eye of the Moon Plan. This world is completely worthless… there is nothing left in it but misery."
(Thinking to himself) "You remind me of myself… Toren… yeah… just like when I was young… but, that'll all change with time…"
(To Riven) "Look! There is nothing in my heart! I don't even feel pain!! You don't have to feel guilty, Riven. This windhole was opened by this hell of a world."
(To Theron) "Now I finally realised that faking one's name and letting others do everything for you is different than entrusting something to one's comrades. I'm not you. The current me is the one who wanted to become Archon: Draven Duskborne!"
(Last words, to Toren) "You'll probably have to suffer again from now on… but don't change, keep going your way. You told me that you never change your words… that's your sentinel way. Right? Toren, become Archon… at all costs."