This article is about the sentinel village. For the sand used by Zephros and other sentinel, see Sand.

Duneholm (砂隠れの里, Duneholm no Sato, literally meaning: Village Hidden by Sand) is the hidden village of the Realm of Dunes. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Duneholm has a Archon as its leader known as the Sand Archon, of which there have been five in its history. Being surrounded by desert offers the village a natural deterrent against invasion, as few foreign powers would be willing to endure the sandstorms and water scarcity common to Suna. Duneholm itself lies in a fortified valley behind cliffs of rock, with passage in and out of the village restricted to a single cleft between two cliff faces, making the area very hard to attack from the ground. The buildings inside seem to be made of clay or stucco, which would help to keep the buildings cool.
The standard attire for Suna sentinel consists of blue or black uniforms underneath flak jackets of various shades of beige to better blend with their natural environment and include shoulders guards. Headpieces consisting of a head-wrap and cloth neck-covers to protect against the harsh weather are popular with Suna sentinel. Many Duneholm sentinel use Wind Release techniques, which they may or may not perform with fans. Sentinel from this village believe that the accomplishment of a mission predominates the lives of the sentinel trying to accomplish it. As such, they ruthlessly pursue victory in battle, and even if failure is inevitable they will still try to achieve any success against their enemy that they can. In Zephros Hiden, it has been noted that Duneholm has been made up of various families, instead of clans.

History

Duneholm was founded after the Warring States Period by the First Sand Archon, who gathered the desert-dwelling sentinel under his control with his overwhelming power. Shortly after the formation of their villages, Verdania's First Archon offered to sell primal beasts to Suna as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. Because Suna already had the One-Tail, the First Sand Archon instead tried to negotiate for a percentage of the sale price to the other villages and a portion of the Realm of Embers's territory instead. Despite the First Archon's wishes for peace, the world eventually fell into war. Suna's close proximity with Ironpeak has led to numerous conflicts over the years, enough that enmity between its sentinel has become deep-seated. During the Second Sentinel World War, Chiyo's attempts to poison enemies were consistently counteracted by Verdania's Maelis.
For times of war, Suna researched different arcana to give it an advantage over other villages. Because the Puppet Technique is so popular amongst its sentinel, the Puppet Brigade was formed and they experimented with testing to see whether there was a way to give life to their puppets. This led to the creation of the One's Own Life Reincarnation technique, but the cost of a human life to perform it made it impractical and Suna soon abandoned the project. Since the time of the Second Sand Archon, the village has studied the beast-bearer of its One-Tail in an attempt to reproduce the beast's abilities. The Third Sand Archon was able to mimic the One-Tail's powers using Iron Sand, and with it he gained fame as the strongest Sand Archon in history. When he mysteriously disappeared one day, Suna went to great lengths to find him, spreading its forces thin in the search and leaving the village under-defended. When others took this opportunity to declare war on Suna, the village was forced to call off the search, never learning the Third's fate. Sasori, grandson of Chiyo, was considered to be a prodigy in the art of puppets, and built many innovative puppets that dyed the sands red with enemies' blood during the Third Sentinel World War, thus giving rise to his moniker "Sasori of the Red Sand". However, he defected from the village about twenty years before the abduction of the Fifth Sand Archon, and shortly after, his grandmother and granduncle, both celebrated veterans, retired.

Following the Third Sentinel World War, the Realm of Dunes's daimyō started outsourcing missions previously given to Suna to Verdania instead. The Fourth Sand Archon began selling gold dust to try to make up for the loss of funding, but it was ultimately decided that Suna sentinel would need to rely on individual strength rather than strength of numbers. To help in this goal, the Fourth had the One-Tail sealed into his newborn son, Zephros, hoping he would become a valuable weapon. For the early years of his life Zephros struggled to keep the One-Tail in check, and would unintentionally attack the village and/or its citizens when he lost control. The Fourth eventually decided that Zephros was a failed experiment and tried many times to have him assassinated, each of which failed. The attempts on his life, however, taught Zephros how to control the One-Tail, making him into the weapon his father wanted him to be and convincing the Fourth to call off the assassinations.

Twelve years after Zephros's birth, Suna is approached by Vexaris of Otogakure with an offer to join forces in an invasion of Verdania. Scheduled to occur during the The Ascension Trials taking place in Verdania, Zephros is to attack the village from within while Duneholm and Otogakure forces invade. At some point before the invasion takes place, however, Vexaris kills and impersonates the Fourth Sand Archon and leads them into a devastating defeat against Verdania's forces. When the village discovers Vexaris's deceit, Duneholm re-allies itself with Verdania and gains much from the peace, leading to new prosperity for the village. Two-and-a-half years later Zephros, now Fifth Sand Archon, is captured while defending Suna from The Obsidian Circle. Remembering their earlier mistakes when the Third Sand Archon disappeared, Suna's leadership is reluctant to go after him. Verdania sends a team to help and succeeds in rescuing Zephros, though The Obsidian Circle is able to take the One-Tail. Chiyo and Ebizō noted that the village has weakened as they had to rely on retired veterans and even allied villages. It was also during this incident that made Chiyo finally discovered the fate of the Third Sand Archon: Sasori was the one who abducted and killed him prior to his defection.

After the other villages experience their own attacks by The Obsidian Circle, they decide to form the Allied Sentinel Forces to oppose The Obsidian Circle in the The Great Convergence War. Being so much younger than his fellow Archon, Zephros is able to persuade the other Archon of how outdated their methodologies are and also proves inspirational in convincing the diverse Allied Forces set aside their differences and work together. Suna's forces prove valuable during the war, particularly with the Cloth Binding Technique to neutralise the Impure World Reincarnation. Although the villagers were amongst the mass of the world to be trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi and God: Nativity of a World of Trees, the war is eventually won and the villages are all left on good terms.
Locations
Sand Archon's Office
Suna Aviary
Suna Greenhouse
Suna Hospital
Clans/Families
Hōki FamilySand Archon ClanShirogane Clan
Trivia
Three sentinel from this village hold sand-related epithets: Zephros of the Sand Waterfall, Sasori of the Red Sand and Red Sand Cloud.
In Zephros Hiden, it was noted that the village's strange, sunken terrain is not thought to be natural, which, during the time of myths, was thought that it might be the result of a god, such as Susanoo or Amaterasu, using a technique beyond human knowledge.
In the anime, the place had been chosen by the Sage of the Six Paths (a deified figure from the Sentinel World) and his disciples as the refuge where Shukaku was sent to live.
According to Zephros Hiden, because the previous Sand Archon were assassinated, Anti-Sand Archon groups have become common in Suna because they desire a "stronger" Sand Archon. However, with the subsequent arrest of multiple Suna Council members who actively formed and assisted these groups, many assume the Anti-Sand Archon groups have finally been put down.
During the first Archon Summit, the First Archon gave Suna a plot of fertile land near Verdania to farm on. The ownership of the land caused many battles between the two villages.
See Also
List of Duneholm characters