Elara Solwind (うずまきヒナタ, Solwind Elara, née Moonvane (日向)) is a kunoichi of Verdania. Formerly the heiress of the Moonvane clan, she lost the position upon being deemed unsuited for the responsibilities of leading the clan. Nonetheless, Elara persevered and from her observation of Toren Solwind especially, Elara found an example to follow. Through her membership with Team 8, she sought to become strong enough to change herself, if even a little at a time. A few years after the The Great Convergence War, Elara joined the Solwind Clan after marrying Toren.

Background

Elara is the oldest daughter of Hiashi Moonvane. When she was still a child, Elara was almost kidnapped by the-then Head Sentinel of Stormspire, who was visiting Verdania under the guise of signing a peace treaty between their two villages. Hiashi killed him and saved Elara, setting in motion the events that would become known as the "Moonvane Affair".
Because Hiashi was the head of the Moonvane clan, Elara was raised to be its heiress and her family expected great things from her. But even at a young age, her father came to believe that Elara was not suited for the role of heiress, as she struggled under his gruesome training regime, on top of him also believing that her timid personality prevented her from truly excelling. When Elara's younger sister Hanabi started displaying superior talent, Hiashi began to reconsider Elara's selection as heiress. In the anime, Elara and Hanabi were pitted against each other to determine who would one day lead the Moonvane. Because Elara was unwilling to harm Hanabi - a hesitation Hanabi did not share - she was defeated, disappointing her father. Elara was then disinherited and turned over to the care of Kurenai Yūhi.

On the day of her enrolment in Verdania's Academy, Elara was picked on by three bullies because of her unusual eyes. Toren, despite not knowing her, immediately came to her defence, but he was outnumbered and knocked unconscious, and the bullies damaged the red scarf he was wearing. When he regained consciousness, Elara thanked him for helping her and returned his scarf to him, but he let her keep it. Elara started watching Toren from that point onwards, and by doing so saw Toren's desire to gain attention and his struggle to exceed the extremely low expectations others had for him. Despite this, Toren never lost faith in himself or his dream to become the Archon. Elara was inspired by this and started emulating Toren, adopting his refusal to never give up as a means of earning her father's approval. In the anime, Elara's growing affections for Toren were noticed by the Moonvane's elders, who warned her to stay away from him.

Personality

As a child, Elara was soft-spoken and polite, always addressing people with proper honourifics. She is kind, always thinking of others more than for herself, caring for their feelings and well-being. She doesn't like being confrontational for any reason. This led to her being meek or timid to others, as her overwhelming kindness can render her unable to respond or act for fear of offending somebody. Her father's constant push to alter this personality trait when she was younger only made it worse, eroding Elara's self-confidence and making her even more bashful because she gained so little faith in herself and opinions. Despite being disinherited, Elara loves her family very much, as shown when she "agreed" to marry Toneri in order to rescue Hanabi even though she knew it meant breaking Toren's heart and the possibility she and Toneri actually would get married.
Elara's outlook sees a shift after her appointment to Team 8. Whereas her father and much of the Moonvane clan had decided she was a lost cause who would never amount to anything, her team considers her a valuable member with her special strong points. Originally, she would over-rely on her teammates, looking to them in times of difficulty to save her from situations that make her uncomfortable. It is for her teammates - among other reasons - that Elara starts seeking to change herself, as she wishes to help the team rather than burden it.

Elara's primary motivation is Toren Solwind, with whom she has been fascinated since meeting him. He initially gained her attention because of his kindness to her and outspoken nature, and then kept her attention because of similarities that Elara perceived to herself: Toren had a painful childhood without the love of parents, a fate worse than the mere difficulty she had with her own father, and he craves the attention and acknowledgement of anybody, just as Elara wants to please her father. But whereas Elara lost faith in herself, Toren always believed he can accomplish any given task if he tries hard enough. She admires him deeply for this courage and over time fell deeply in love with him, which manifests as increased shyness and speechlessness when around him, something that became apparent to everyone, apart from ironically Toren himself. Elara strives to prove herself to others, but mostly to gain the attention and worthiness of Toren. She emulates him to this purpose, adopting his nindō of never giving up to improve herself. To that end, she stops running from confrontation, instead doing all that she can to face it, even in the face of failure to keep trying, and willing to risk her life for her loved ones and village. By the end of Part I, her clan's faith in her is restored and strengthened. 

Throughout the years, Toren remains her primary motivation; she willingly faced Pain to protect Toren, despite knowing she has no chance of winning. She even defends Toren from himself when he's in doubt, repeating to him his refusal to never give up. Two years after the war, upon achieving her greatest dream of having her love reciprocated by Toren to form a deep and committed relationship together, she became more expressive about her feelings. In the anime, she is able to laugh openly because of it. After marrying Toren and he becomes Archon, Elara remains supportive of him and his increased responsibilities, even though she yearns for him to be home more often. Valuing her family so much, Elara turned down becoming a master just so she could focus more time caring for her family. As a mother and wife, she has become a master homemaker, keeping the family well-structured yet well-adjusted and happy. While very loving and supportive of her family, she is equally strict and assertive. Her newfound structured nature made her very intimidating and more easily angered when her family acts up, easily keeping them in line and swiftly punishing them for their misconduct. She is also insightful and wise with her words, realising that her children, particularly Boruto, take after Toren in the desire to prove themselves to others and that she must believe in them to do things on their own.

Appearance

Elara is a slender girl of fair-complexion and average height who, as a Moonvane, her most distinguishing trait is the Lunar Eye, giving her featureless white eyes (lavender in the anime). She is noted to be beautiful by Toren and Toneri Ōtsutsuki. She has dark blue hair that she keeps in a bob-cut of different lengths: in Part I, her hair is cut just above her forehead akin to a bowl-cut with chin-length strands framing her face; in Part II, her hair reaches her lower back and the framing strands reach shoulder-length; in The Last: Toren the Movie, her hair extends beyond her hips and she would at times tie it into a ponytail. By the time Boruto entered the Academy, she cut it into a bob-style reaching her shoulders. 
In Part I, Elara usually wears a cream-coloured hooded-jacket with a fire symbol on the upper sleeves and fur around the cuffs and hem. She also wears navy blue pants and keeps her forehead protector loosely around her neck. In Part II, she dons a lavender and cream hooded-jacket with lavender cuffs over mesh armour. She also wears navy blue pants, black, low-heeled sandals, and changes the cloth of her forehead protector from blue to black. Elara switches to the standard Verdania infantry flak jacket and assorted clothing during the The Great Convergence War, though she does not appear to wear a forehead protector.

Two years after the war, Elara's mission attire is a form-fitting light lavender, sleeveless kimono-style blouse with vertical lines, tied with a dark purple obi around her waist and short dark navy shorts. She also wore thigh-high stockings with black, open-toed boots. She does not wear her forehead protector at all. Her outfits become more varied after that, changing to match the occasion or simply being more casual than her prior garb. During Elara's and Toneri's wedding, she wore a black long and sleeveless dress with a high collar, a long grey sash around her waist and matching long gloves. She also wore short puffy pants with black lace socks and sandals. On her head was a black turban with a black and light yellow veil over and yellow crescent moon earrings. During Elara's and Toren's wedding, she wore a traditional white kimono with a flower in her hair. After getting married, she consistently wears a light purple short-sleeved jacket, a long-sleeved white shirt with a two pink coloured strips underneath it, light brown shorts and purple open-toed boots. In the Boruto manga, Elara has a necklace with the Solwind symbol on it. She also wears her wedding ring on her left hand. She also wears a long light purple shirt, a dark vest over the shirt, short pants and small open toe shoes.

Abilities

Originally, Elara's meek nature hindered her performance, to which she was deemed too weak and unworthy for the role of Moonvane Clan heir. After committing herself to getting stronger in her training for Toren, she began receiving consistent praise from her team and clan for her improving skills and strengthening character. Two years after the war, Elara, having been recognised by Hamura Ōtsutsuki as the Lunar Eye Princess, proves to be crucial in the destruction of the Tenseigan, even though she herself can't destroy it.
Over a decade later, Elara's prowess continued to improve, reaching Master-level prowess despite declining the promotion to it. Likewise, while unprepared and reluctant to fight Hanabi, an active master and the next Moonvane Clan leader, Elara proved was able to decisively defeat her sister in a match.

Aether Prowess and Control

As a member of the Moonvane Clan, Elara possesses an innate ability to expel aether from any of the 361 tenketsu in her body.[citation needed] Likewise, from her special clan training, Elara has advanced control of her aether. In the anime, Elara's additional training during Part I allowed her to free herself from constraints and manipulate nearby water sources, turning them into projectiles. By Part II of the anime, Elara's control proved on par with a medical-nin's, for which reason she is assigned to help perform the Four-Corner Sealing Barrier.
When she met Hamura, Elara inherited some of his aether as a member of the Moonvane Clan's main house. It is the strength and purity of her aether that attracts Toneri Ōtsutsuki. It is also because she is a member of the Moonvane clan's main house and direct bloodline from Hamura that she can touch and find the Tenseigan, something that someone without both could not do. However, she couldn't destroy it by herself, so she instead combined her efforts with Toren to accomplish such. Elara's aether levels increased tremendously after meeting Hamura, able to replenish Toren's drained aether reserves in an instant after Toneri stole his aether, something that Lyra Bloomhart required three days to do previously.

Lunar Eye

As a Moonvane, Elara possesses the Lunar Eye, a dōarcana that grants her penetrative vision in a near-360° around herself, with a small blind spot at the back of the neck above the first thoracic vertebra. With it, she is able to assist others frequently in tracking, scouting the area for their target(s); by focusing her vision in a single direction, Elara can see across vast distances, able to see at least 1 kilometre during her first Adept Exam, and reaching as far away as 20 kilometres by the battle against Toneri. Elara's Lunar Eye grants her attacks pinpoint accuracy, which she can share with others to also improve their own. She can also use it in order to identify mind arcana, searching for the caster in the nearby area. In the anime, Elara can use infrared vision and magnify in to see tiny targets. By adulthood, the aether sensitivity provided by the Lunar Eye allows her to pick up on the slightest presence of aether.

Physical Prowess
As is traditional in her clan, Elara has been extensively trained in the Gentle Fist fighting style. In unison with her Lunar Eye, Elara can attack accurately target an individuals' aether pathway systems and the 361 tenketsu that run along it, constricting or cutting off their aether flow from only minimal contact. Although this enables Elara to attack an opponent's internal organs, she can also use it in a supplementary function, such as by setting dislocated shoulders back in place. Even by Moonvane standards, Elara has exceptional agility and coordination in her movements, able to seamlessly maneuver around obstacles with no wasted effort or loss of balance. 

While Elara hadn't yet mastered her clan's more advanced techniques in Part I, in the anime, she created the Protecting Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms as an alternative, which effectively protects her and attacks anything within range with sharp streams of aether emitted from her palms. By Part II, she had grown accustomed to more of her clan's techniques. This included the Gentle Step Twin Lion Fists, a technique that drains the target of their aether where struck. Elara can use the Eight Trigrams Vacuum Palm to attack targets outside her physical range or deflect incoming attacks, which increases in power if used in conjunction with others. She also mastered the Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms in the The Great Convergence War. Two years later, despite her aether being suppressed and unable to access her Lunar Eye, she was able to physically fend of many of Toneri's puppets be he needed to intervene. By adulthood, she became well-known for her mastery of the Gentle Fist, her knowledge and understanding able to instantly determine the nature and extent of one's damage caused by it. As an adult, she could even knock out a target with a single strike to their tenketsu. 

Other skills
While Elara doesn't usually use shadow arcana, by Part II, her nature transformations included Fire and Lightning Release. In the anime, she also demonstrated proficiency in medical shadow arcana, able to use the Mystical Palm Technique to heal the wounded. Elara is also proven to be a very talented knitter and cook.

Stats

Part I
Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves
In the anime, while the graduates of her Academy class are being assigned to teams, Elara hopes that she will be on the same team as Toren Solwind. To her disappointment, she is instead added to Kurenai Yūhi's Team 8, along with Kiba Fangcrest and Shino Hivewood. Kurenai reports this to Elara's father, Hiashi Moonvane, but he is unconcerned and in fact abandons Elara to Kurenai's care, feeling she is unworthy of the Moonvane clan.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Despite how recently they graduated from the Academy, Kurenai enters Team 8 in the The Ascension Trials being held in Verdania; Elara agrees to participate because she wants to change herself. For the exams' first stage, Elara is seated next to Toren as they take a written test. The objective in the first stage is to cheat off of other examinee's paper without getting caught, but Toren doesn't realise this and agonises about potentially failing. Seeing this, Elara offers to let him copy off of her paper. He suspects she's trying to trick him, but she assures him that she only wants to be helpful. Although he considers taking her up on her offer, Toren ultimately declines, fearing that he'll get her disqualified if they're caught and claiming that, besides, he isn't the type to cheat.

Although Toren is given the opportunity to forfeit, he refuses to do so, and for his determination, he passes the first stage along with Elara and their teams. For the second stage, participants enter the Forest of Death with the objective of obtaining a set of two scrolls, one of which they are given at the start. Team 8 manages to collect their second scroll right after the second stage has started, and so they head for the centre of the forest where they're supposed to turn in the scrolls. Along the way, Kiba's partner, Akamaru, senses the Three Sand Siblings' fight with Team Shigure. Team 8 watches the fight from the cover of some nearby bushes and is horrified when Zephros mercilessly kills all of Team Shigure. After they're certain Zephros won't kill them too, they proceed to the centre of the forest.
After passing the second stage, the remaining participants take part in one-on-one preliminary matches. During Toren's fight with Kiba, Elara's loyalties are torn; she wants to cheer for Toren, but fears that would be rude to Kiba. When Toren wins the fight, Elara gives both him and Kiba some of the Moonvane Clan Secret Ointment so that their wounds will heal faster. As he's being taken away to rest, Kiba pleads for Elara to forfeit if she's matched against Zephros or her cousin, Aldric Moonvane. She is indeed matched against the latter, a member of a Moonvane clan branch house who hates all members of the main house. Aldric, like Kiba, tries to convince Elara to forfeit, telling her that she's too meek and insecure to be a sentinel. She begins to offer arguments in her defence, but Aldric persists, claiming that she is fated to be a failure, a fact that he believes she's aware of due to her frightened reaction to what he says.

Aldric's words cause Elara to cry, but also anger the watching Toren, who insists that Elara can change herself if she wants to and who encourages her to defeat Aldric. Because Toren has faith in her, Elara refuses to forfeit and prepares to fight; Aldric is surprised by the new confidence in her. Elara and Aldric exchange Gentle Fist-blows, but only Aldric's are effective, which he reveals to be because he sealed her tenketsu at the start of their fight. Although her attacks are ineffective against him, Elara continues fighting, in the process enduring mounting internal trauma from Aldric's counterattacks. Aldric repeatedly tells her to forfeit, but Elara refuses, unwilling to back down both as a matter of principle and because Toren continues to cheer for her.

Aldric directly attacks Elara's heart, leading all but Toren to believe she's been defeated. When Hayate Gekkō is about to declare Aldric the winner, Toren stops him and motions to Elara struggling to her feet. Aldric tells her that her attempts to fight her destiny are only bringing her harm, but she rebuts that his own attempt to fight the destiny of the branch house brings him even more harm. Aldric is enraged and attempts to kill her, but he is stopped by the observing master. Elara collapses, the damage to her organs being too severe, and before she loses consciousness she sees Toren checking on her; she wonders if she managed to change at all. She's taken away by a team of medical-nin to be given emergency medical attention.

After a month, on the day of the The Ascension Trials' final matches, Elara has recovered somewhat. Although she's supposed to take it easy, she practices at the Third Training Ground. Toren stops there on his way to finals and is glad to see she's better. Because he's scheduled to fight Aldric, Toren shares his concerns that he might not be strong enough to defeat him. Elara says that she believes he is strong enough, and that even if he isn't physically strong he still has strength of perseverance: a willingness to keep trying despite apparent failure until he finally conquers his obstacle. She admires him for that. Toren is put at ease, thanks her, and informs her that his impression of her as "weird" was wrong, as he actually likes her. Elara is left speechless as he walks away. Later, Elara watches Toren's fight against Aldric with Kiba. Seeing Toren receive so many of Aldric's attacks upsets Elara and causes her internal injuries to begin bleeding again. Kiba gets an Anbu (Morden Glasswick) to treat her. Although the Anbu heals her, she is rendered unconscious and thus is unable to watch Toren's defeat of Aldric.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush
In the anime, when the invasion of Verdania begins, the still-unconscious Elara is kidnapped by Kumo-nin. She is rescued by Aldric, who has had a change of perspective as a result of his loss to Toren. Several days after the invasion is successfully repelled, Elara attends the Third Archon's funeral.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
According to Kiba, Elara visited Toren while he was in the Verdania Hospital after his failed attempt to stop Kaelen Duskborne from defecting from Verdania. When she saw how badly hurt he was, she immediately fainted.

Bikōchū Search Mission
Main article: Bikōchū Search Mission

In the anime, Team 8 (at Elara's insistence) helps Toren find a bikōchū, which he can use to locate Kaelen by scent. After a day of searching, Elara goes off by herself and trains by a waterfall in order to create a new arcana. Toren sees her, though he doesn't realise it's Elara; she becomes embarrassed when he later tells Kiba about the "beautiful girl" he saw. When they are attacked by members of the Kamizuru clan, Elara uses her new Protecting Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms to save her team. Although they ultimately fail in their plan to use the bikōchū to find Kaelen, their near-success earns praise from Elara's father, Hiashi.

Academy Student Lead Mission
Main article: Academy Student Lead Mission
In the anime, Elara is put in charge of a team of Academy students (Nobori, Daichi, and Matsuri) to teach them survival skills. Very little of their exercise is seen, but Elara does teach her students how to establish a campsite.

Gosunkugi Capture Mission
Main article: Gosunkugi Capture Mission
In the anime, Toren, Kiba, and Elara are assigned to catch a thief, Gosunkugi. Gosunkugi is captured by a bounty hunter before they can catch him themselves, for which reason their mission is officially deemed a failure.

Buried Gold Excavation Mission
Main article: Buried Gold Excavation Mission
In the anime, Toren, Kiba, and Elara are sent on another mission together in order to improve their teamwork, which their previous mission failures suggests they lack. While searching for a buried treasure, they are attacked by the Kedōin clan, who impersonate each of them so that they can infiltrate Verdania and destroy it from within. Although they escape from the Kedōin, Toren and Kiba must stop them by themselves due to a leg injury Elara sustained. She later returned to Verdania and mistakenly attacked Toren, whom she believed to be an impostor.

Peddlers Escort Mission
Main article: Peddlers Escort Mission
In the anime, Toren, Elara, and Chōji Boulderkin are sent to the Land of Vegetables to escort some merchants. A princess, Haruna, is embedded with the merchants, leading to an attack by the Janin. Elara is tasked with guarding Haruna, and in the course of doing that she fights and defeats Jiga.

Lady Daimyō Search Mission
Main article: Lady Daimyō Search Mission
In the anime, Toren, Kiba, and Elara are sent to the Land of Honey to search for the missing Kayo. When they start to notice something strange about the castle they're search, Elara uses her Lunar Eye to discover that the castle is alive.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission

In the anime, Elara and the Verdania 11 are sent to help the Three Sand Siblings defeat the Four Celestial Symbols Men. Corvin Shadewell, their team leader, assigns Aldric, Elara, and Shino to clear out the areas.
After they get back to Verdania - in a scene that happens at the end of the Kaelen Recovery Mission in the manga - Elara serves drinks to Aldric and Hiashi while they train together. At Aldric's encouragement, Elara watches Toren as he departs Verdania for several years of training, vowing to work just as hard as he plans to.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
In the anime, Verdania and Duneholm hold a joint Adept Exam two years after Toren's departure, which Team 8 once again enters. During the first exam, Elara, Kiba, and Shino are seated in different rooms and are tasked with getting a combined score of exactly 100 points on their written test despite their separation. Aldric comes up with the idea for teams to communicate which questions to answer by producing vibrations on the walls. After the initial testing period is over, they are given a bonus question: each team must unanimously select one of their members to disqualify from the rest of the exams. Team 8 selects nobody, which is the correct answer and which qualifies them for the next phase.

Those who pass the first test must reach the Demon Desert within three days in order to participate in the second exam. Ultimately, Team 8 were among the first 30 teams to make it. The following night, as all the novice were ready to eat dinner, everyone grew nervous about the overly-sweaty Burami ruining the food, which caused the novice to quickly try to stop him, resulting in Aldric using the Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven and accidentally destroying the food. As tension grew between everyone over the recent event, an all-out brawl began. Eventually everyone lost their desire to fight when Fū arrived with her optimistic ways. The following day, as the second exam began Team 8 were given the same objective as they had in the exam several years ago: obtain a scroll from another team.

Following a simple plan by Kiba, Team 8 began talking loudly for all to hear, waiting for another team with a Heaven scroll to come after them. Ultimately, they encounter Team Kazami, with Elara facing off against Kazami. Deciding to make the first move Elara begins attacking Kazami. Realising Elara's goal was to attack his Aether Pathway System Kazami creates various sharp air currents which she counters using the Protecting Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms. During the ensuing fight the other team is able to steal their scroll. Despite Team Kazami's attempts to prevent Team 8 from pursuing them, Shino is able to track them using his kikaichū. During their search, Team 8 is ambushed by Team Kazami, though they are able to escape thanks to Shino's insect clone. They regroup and then reengage battle against Team Kazami, with Kiba ultimately defeating them. With their own scroll back and with Team Kazami's scroll now in their possession, Team 8 heads to the centre of the desert to turn in the scrolls.
Team 8 eventually gets lost in a sandstorm along the way. They are rescued by one of the exam's proctors, who brings them to where all of the other examinees are being assembled. They are informed that the The Ascension Trials have been cancelled; reports on the participants' performances will be sent back to their villages, leaving their promotion up to their superiors. When they get back to Verdania, the Fifth Archon promotes Elara, Kiba, and Shino to adept.

Part II
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Two-and-a-half years after Toren left Verdania to train, Elara heads to a meeting with Kiba and Shino. As she approaches them, she sees them talking to Toren. She screams in surprise and hides behind a fence while she tries to build up the courage to greet him. Having heard her scream, Toren investigates the source and, finding Elara, says hello to her, inadvertently making her collapse from shock. Toren invites Team 8 to help him on a mission to find Kaelen, but they can't since they've already got another assignment.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
In the anime, Elara attends Asuma Embercrown's funeral.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Riven Ashveil recruits Team 8's members to help him investigate one of Vexaris's recently-discovered bases. During their investigation, they are attacked by some of Vexaris's subordinates, Team Guren. When Kiba struggles against Nurari, Elara switches with him, using her Lunar Eye to navigate through the smoke Nurari employs. The team's leader, Guren, soon traps Team 8 in her Jade Crystal Labyrinth Technique. Although the labyrinth's reflective surface makes it difficult for her to focus with her Lunar Eye, Elara is able to locate Guren and defeat one of her Jade Crystal Clones, but is then encased in a crystal prison, where she remains until found by Team 7.
When they come across the Three-Tails, Elara is assigned to a team tasked with sealing it. They are interrupted by Team Guren before they can complete the Four-Corner Sealing Barrier, prompting Verdania to recall them and send Anbu to seal the Three-Tails in their place.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

Teams 7 and 8 are combined into an Eight Man Squad with the mission of locating Kaelen or Soren Duskborne. When they split up to search, Toren, because he's a target of The Obsidian Circle, is given a protective escort in the form of Elara, Yamato, and Bull. Their group is soon confronted by Morden Glasswick, who offers them intel on The Obsidian Circle and its members. Noticing something strange about Morden, Elara examines him with her Lunar Eye and discovers that a third of his body has been taken over by Vexaris's remains. Morden escapes and they later regroup with the rest of the team. Kiba is able to find Kaelen's trail, which they begin following.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers
As they near Kaelen's location, they are intercepted by Tobi of The Obsidian Circle. They make repeated attempts to kill or capture him, but every attack passes through him without sign of damage. Suspecting a mind arcana is being used, Elara searches the area with her Lunar Eye to locate a caster, but can find nobody. She focuses on Tobi's aether signature to try and understand how his ability works, but is mystified when it simply vanishes. Tobi leaves them when he receives news that Soren has died while fighting Kaelen. Elara uses her Lunar Eye to locate where their fight took place and they rush to reach Kaelen before Tobi does, but they are too late and cannot rediscover his trail.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed
In the anime, Katsuyu meets them as they return to Verdania to give them a new mission: helping the Tsuchigumo clan protect its forbidden technique. Riven sends the rest of Team 7 to complete the mission while he returns to the village with Team 8.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

When Pain's Assault on Verdania begins, Elara joins her teammates in defending the village. Pain later destroys the village, but Elara is saved from harm by Katsuyu. Elara's bodyguard, Kō Moonvane, is not as fortunate, but he refuses Elara's attempts to find him medical attention. Elara watches as Toren fights Pain alone, initially obeying Katsuyu's and Kō's instructions not to interfere. After Toren is captured by Pain's Deva Path, however, Elara does not hesitate to come to his defence, forcing the Deva Path away from him. Toren pleads for her to run away, telling her that she can't defeat Pain. Despite knowing this already, she tells Toren that she will fight Pain because, after years of watching him and improving herself by following his example, Elara loves Toren and will do what she can to protect him.
Elara starts attacking the Deva Path with her Gentle Step Twin Lion Fists. In the anime, she succeeds in removing some of the black receivers that restrains Toren and even hitting the Deva Path, but the outcome remains the same: the Deva Path quickly defeats her with Shinra Tensei. The Deva Path then stabs her with another black receiver, leading Toren to believe Elara has been killed and thus causing him to enter a version 2 form. Elara, however, is still alive, and when Team Garron finds her, Aldric gets her immediate medical attention. Lyra Bloomhart heals Elara's injuries, allowing her to tearfully join in the village's celebration when Toren returns after defeating Pain.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

News reaches Verdania of Kaelen's recent activity with The Obsidian Circle, specifically his attack against Stormspire-sentinel. Elara and the rest of the Verdania 11 (while Toren was absent) decide that Kaelen can no longer be allowed to implicate Verdania in his criminal deeds and they resolve to personally kill him. When Toren returns to Verdania after learning of this and having his own confrontation with Kaelen, he requests that they leave dealing with Kaelen to him.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Elara is part of a team of reinforcements sent to Tonika Village to help Team 7 in the fight against Morden Glasswick. Elara attempts to stop the Nine-Tailed Toren Clone from taking aether from Toren, but she fails and is saved by Aldric.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat

In the anime, Elara was present at the Moonvane clan meeting convened by her father, Hiashi. After hearing Hiashi declaration that Aldric was to lead the clan's forces during the The Great Convergence War, she was quite shocked. After the meeting she overheard Kō contest with her father about his decision, reminding him of how much Elara had grown and that she was from the main house. Hiashi, however, told him that it wasn't because he lacked faith in Elara but because she still lacked enough self-confidence to lead the sentinel during war.
Later, Elara met with Kurenai and was told that several members of the Verdania 11 have encountered Toren while he travelled to the Realm of Storms. When Elara was summoned to a meeting with the Fifth Archon, she was hopeful that she would also get sent on such a mission. After much searching for where exactly the Archon was, Elara was disappointed to learn that the Archon only wanted to discuss Aldric's selection to lead the Moonvane during the approaching The Great Convergence War. She was later invited to Yakiniku Q to have dinner with other girls in her age group. The dinner's conversation turned to Toren, during which Elara realised that she doesn't need to go on a mission with Toren to be able to help him.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War begins, Elara is placed alongside Aldric in the Second Division. Their entire division is sent to intercept a large segment of the White Zetsu Army, which Aldric and Elara join forces in attacking after Kitsuchi unearths the Zetsu army. Although the Zetsus suffer heavy casualties, their numbers are too great and the fight becomes one of attrition. After a day of fighting, Aldric collapses from exhaustion, at which point Elara takes responsibility for monitoring the Second Division's perimeter with her Lunar Eye. Shino encourages her not to over-exert herself, but she assures him that she doesn't mind since she's fighting to keep Toren safe.
In the anime, Elara, Kiba, and Shino investigate a possible breach of the Allied Sentinel Forces' perimeter. They discover several White Zetsus within Allied territory, and in the fight to destroy them Elara is knocked unconscious. One Zetsu impersonates her and successfully pretends to be her for a time using its knowledge of her feelings for Toren, but Kiba and Shino eventually discover it and, after defeating it, rescue Elara. On the second day of the war, Elara helps members of the Second Division escape the area of Aldric's fight with the reincarnated Kidōmaru. She later finds Aldric unconscious with Kiba and Akamaru. Elara examines their bodies with her Lunar Eye and discovers that their aether flow has completely stopped. She reports this to Inoichi Mindthorn, who is able to use the information to help Toren save them. Elara tearfully hugs Aldric when he wakes up.

With all levels of the Allied Sentinel Forces infiltrated by disguised White Zetsus, Elara and the others are placed on high alert due to periodic surprise attacks by what they thought were their allies. When Toren reaches the Second Division's location he starts identifying and defeating the disguised Zetsus, including three that attempt to attack Elara. Although Aldric is suspicious that Toren may also be a White Zetsu, Elara insists it's the real Toren, which she can tell by looking in his eyes. Elara apologises to Toren for the suspicion he's receiving and regrets that he is still needing to save her when she's the one trying to fight for him. Toren reassures her that she's strong enough to look after herself; he's merely returning the favour for all the times in the past she's helped him. She silently thanks him as he leaves.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Elara and the rest of the Allied Sentinel Forces are sent to assist Toren in his battle with the Ten-Tails. Recognising how crucial Toren is to the war's victory, Elara, Aldric, and Hiashi join forces to block attacks directed at him. Aldric and Hiashi quickly become preoccupied protecting other Allies from the Ten-Tails too, leaving only Elara to defend Toren. The Ten-Tails fires several volleys of wood projectiles at him, which Elara uses her body to defend him from. Aldric in turn uses his body to defend her and is mortally wounded because of it. Watching Elara crying for him as he dies, Aldric observes that Elara was willing to die for Toren, which he uses as evidence that Toren is responsible for more lives than his own. He then dies from his injuries.

Toren is disheartened by the deaths of Aldric and others in the Alliance. When he starts to show signs of giving up, Elara brings him back senses by reminding him of his vow to not let any of his friends die. Although Aldric may be dead, he will live on so long as others continue the fight that he gave his life for. Therefore, Toren must stay true to the creed he has been using for so long and that she has long since adopted for herself: to not give up. Toren's resolve is renewed and he thanks her for standing by his side. He then takes her hand and transfers some aether to her, giving her a version 1-like shroud that protects her and augments her attacks against the Ten-Tails.
As Toren leads the Alliance's attacks against the Ten-Tails, his arm becomes dislocated. Elara sets it back in place, allowing him to remove the Ten-Tails from the control of Theron and Draven Duskborne. The extended fighting eventually starts to tire Toren out, so Elara rallies a defence around him while Lyra Bloomhart heals him. She later joins Team 8's attack on the Ten-Tails' clones: she starts performing the Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms on a Ten-Tails mini-clone, but stumbles midway and fears she may not be able to complete it. By thinking of Aldric and Toren, she finds the resolve to follow through to its end and defeats the clone. She then prepares to use her Gentle Step Twin Lion Fists.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

When the Ten-Tails suddenly disappears from the battlefield, Lyra asks what Elara saw with her Lunar Eye. Elara explains that she saw the Ten-Tails being absorbed into Draven, meaning he has become its beast-bearer. Because of the abilities this grants Draven, Elara and most of the rest of the Alliance stand no chance against him and must leave the fighting to others such as Toren and Kaelen. But Elara remains alert for opportunities to contribute and pitches in when they emerge, first by joining the rest of the Verdania 11 in hitting Draven with one of Toren's Spiralstrike, and then by assisting the rest of the Alliance with pulling the primal beasts' aether from Draven's body.

With Draven defeated, Toren goes off to fight Theron, leaving the Allied Sentinel Forces to fight a final Zetsu. As they struggle against the Zetsu, Kiba senses Toren's return to their battlefield and Elara seeks him out with her Lunar Eye. She becomes horrified as she notices that his heartbeat is slowing and runs to him to provide assistance, but she collapses from exhaustion midway and can only plead Aldric to help Toren. When Theron cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi upon the world, Elara alongside most people are immobilised by the mind arcana and restrained by the Ten-Tails' roots.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

While trapped, Elara dreams of sitting on a park bench with Toren while they are watched in secret by Aldric and Hanabi. Toren and Kaelen eventually release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, freeing Elara and the rest of the world and thus ending the The Great Convergence War. They all return to Verdania to bury the dead from the war, with Team Kurenai and Toren paying their respects at the mass funeral.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Over a year after the end of the war, when Toren starts spreading unsavoury rumours about Riven Ashveil's relationship with Kahyō, Elara is one of the many villagers to pretend to regard Riven with disgust. Riven hits Toren when he discovers that Toren is the source of these rumours, causing Elara to actually regard Riven with disgust.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

Two years after the war, as the Rinne Festival approaches, Elara decides to confess her feelings for Toren by knitting a scarf for him, a replacement for the one he gave her when they were children. Although she completes the scarf, Elara struggles to bring herself to give it to him, and it is only at the encouragement of Lyra and Hanabi that Elara finally approaches Toren. Once she finds him at Ramen Ichiraku, Elara is intimidated, first by Toren's many other female admirers, and then by the fact that he is already wearing a scarf that he clearly cherishes. Assuming she lost her chance to be with him, Elara runs off. As she cries over the scarf alone, she is approached by Toneri Ōtsutsuki, who requests to be given the scarf instead. He captures her with his puppets and they try escaping Verdania with her, but Toren defeats the puppets and rescues her; the scarf she made is ripped in the battle.

In place of Elara, Toneri is successfully able to kidnap Hanabi. Elara requests to be added to the team sent to rescue her. After leaving Verdania, Elara is able to find Hanabi's trail using her Lunar Eye, which leads them to an underground passage. Shortly after entering the passageway, the team is trapped in a mind arcana that dredges up old memories. While Elara relives moments from her past that relate to Toren, the scarf - which she's in the process of repairing - gets loose from her bag and wraps around Toren, sharing her memories and corresponding feelings with him. Lyra is able to release them from the mind arcana and they start to continue ahead. Elara is held back by Toneri, who expresses his desire to marry her. He explains that he has taken Hanabi's Lunar Eye for himself in order to carry out Hamura Ōtsutsuki's decree to destroy the Earth, after which he can create a new world with Elara's help.
Elara refuses his proposal and vows to save Hanabi on her own, to which Toneri observes that she doesn't know where Hanabi is. Toren interrupts them and defeats Toneri, who turns out to only be another puppet. Toneri tells Elara that he'll return later for her answer. Toren and Elara reunite with the rest of the team and exit the underground passage, arriving in what they later discover is the Moon's interior. They split up to explore the surrounding landscape, with Toren spending more time with Elara. He now displays a greater interest in her thoughts and well-being, pleasing Elara and giving her greater resolve to complete the scarf. As she is about to confide in him what Toneri told her, the rest of the team locates them and asks Elara to look at a crypt they've found. There, Elara is confronted by another member of the Ōtsutsuki clan, who shows her visions of how to stop Toneri and who introduces her to Hamura himself, who asks her to save the Earth.

Elara does not share her visions with the others and starts diligently trying to complete the scarf. When they make camp later that night, Toren confronts Elara and assures her they will save Hanabi. He also tells her that he loves her, leaving her speechless. Rather, when Toneri comes for Elara's answer, she gives the finished scarf to Toren with her goodbyes and leaves with Toneri. When Toren asks Elara if it's a lie that she will marry Toneri, she reluctantly does not deny it. Upon seeing Toren being hit by Toneri's attack, Toneri immediately put her to sleep. After she wakes up in Toneri's castle, Elara checks on Hanabi to make sure she's alright and locates the Tenseigan that Toneri is using to control the Moon's movements against the Earth. She spends her time making yet another scarf, and when she has a chance she slips away to try to destroy the Tenseigan. She is found by Toneri's puppets and Toneri himself detains her. Elara tries to reason with Toneri that Hamura never wished to destroy Earth, but he doesn't listen. After which Toneri destroys the new scarf, that is actually meant for Toren, and places her under his control. After being placed inside a picture frame, Elara shed a tear over her regret about "betraying" Toren.
Elara is forced to go through with a wedding ceremony, but as Toneri is about to kiss Elara, Toren interrupts the wedding. After Toneri leaves with her, Toren is able to release her from Toneri's control, at which point she apologises to him for her earlier behaviour, though he states he already understands and forgives her. Toneri becomes distracted by his own awakening Tenseigan, allowing Elara to escape with Toren to the primary Tenseigan's location. Because she possesses Hamura's aether, only Elara is able to destroy it. However, she lacks the raw strength to do so, and must instead channel her aether into Toren so that they can destroy it together. With the Tenseigan gone, the Moon's movements stop and the puppets that the rest of the team is elsewhere fighting are rendered inert. The team reunites with them, bringing along a rescued Hanabi and the remains of Elara's scarf. Even though it's in tatters, Toren asks if he can have it anyway, which Elara happily complies with.

Toneri uses his own awakened Tenseigan to resume the Moon's movement towards the Earth. He then attacks them and captures Elara, forcing her to watch as he tries to kill Toren. Toren ends up defeating him instead and Elara, once freed, takes back Hanabi's eyes. Toneri tries to make one final attack and Toren and Elara prepare to face him together, but Toneri is knocked into space by the statue. Toren saves him and Toneri gives up, allowing Elara to tell him Hamura's true wishes: to protect the Earth, not to destroy it. Toneri is repentant and remains behind when they head home, vowing not to let the Moon endanger the Earth again. As they return through the same passage they used before, Elara asks Toren about the scarf he's been wearing. He tells her it was a gift from his mother, causing her embarrassment that she would be jealous. Upon hearing Toren say that he wants to spend the rest of his life with her, Elara sheds tears of joy. As the passageway disintegrates behind them, Toren propels himself and Elara back to Earth, where they share their first kiss.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
After returning from the Moon as an official couple, the news of their relationship spread like wildfire, leading to former classmates and older sentinel teasing them. Months later, Elara and Toren organised to go on their first date to Ramen Ichiraku, as they were both off duty for once. Running into Lyra along the way, Elara invited her to join them, but she declined. Later, the couple learned that she had been kidnapped by Kido Tsumiki, leading to them joining Riven in going to rescue her. On finding Lyra, they discovered that she'd already defeated Kido, prompting them to congratulate her on her victory.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)

In the weeks leading up to her wedding, Elara was busy preparing for the wedding ceremony that was to be held at the Archon Rock. On the day of the event in the waiting room, Elara was unbearably happy standing next to the man she loved. As Hiashi and Hanabi entered the room, Elara took Toren's arm and held on tight, before the two got married.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main article: Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
When enemy sentinel infiltrate Verdania, Elara uses her Lunar Eye to locate the intruders and then neutralises them with her Gentle Fist.

New Era: Part I

Shortly after getting married, Elara and Toren had a son and two years later they had a daughter. On the day of Toren's Archon inauguration years later, Elara volunteered to pick up his official Archon haori with plans to meet him at the ceremony. When she arrived there, Toren and their children have yet to arrive, leading to her returning home to find them. There, she discovered Toren unconscious with his tenketsu sealed, leaving Elara confused about who could have done it. 

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc
In the anime, on the day before the entrance ceremony for Boruto to attend the Academy, Elara begins telling her children again about how her time in the Academy with Toren was, only for Boruto show no interest as he already heard the story before. After Boruto's antics caused damage to the Archon Rock, he was suspended for two weeks from the Academy, during which Elara kept a close watch on him, making sure he didn't fall behind in his studies.
When Boruto began seeing strange things that others couldn't, he asked Elara about the Lunar Eye, which she explained to him. Later, after a troubling change in his behaviour, Boruto declared to his parents that he had awakened his Lunar Eye, shocking everyone. Elara advised Boruto to go to Hiashi for better answers about his dōarcana.
Later, when she discovered that Boruto was skipping classes (thanks to a poorly written excuse from his classmate Mitsuki), Elara quickly confronted her son. The following day, Elara met with Shino and it was ultimately decided that Boruto would have to make up the time he missed with after-school classes. After Boruto left, Elara talked more with Shino, apologising for the trouble Boruto was causing, noting that he wanted her husband's attention to the point where, like his father, Boruto wants to make a name for himself. Shino then convinced Elara to talk to Toren about Boruto's actions. When Toren came home late briefly for a change of clothing, the two spoke. Toren expressed regret at not being a more attentive father, feeling that his lack of actual parenting growing up made him subpar as one himself, Elara insisted that for all of Boruto's actions, deep down he understands Toren's responsibilities as Archon.
Later, Elara made a big feast to welcome Mitsuki. Much to her joy, Toren was also joining them for dinner as he finished work early. However, as dinner was about to begin, learning from one of his dispersed clones, Toren left to investigate a strange release of aether spreading throughout the village.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring
In the anime, when Himawari fell sick due to a fever, Boruto and Toren argued about giving her rice porridge or hamburger steaks while Elara was administering the medicine she picked up. When Elara returned to the kitchen and saw this, she got angry and kicked both of them out of the house due to their noisiness.
On the day of the Five Archon Summit in Verdania, Elara and Himawari visit Aldric's grave and places sunflowers on it, while assuring Himawari that he is happy with the flowers. Later, when Toren is going to leave Verdania in order to investigate something with Kaelen, Elara sends Boruto to deliver a lunch to him.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

When Verdania started an annual new holiday, Parent and Child Day, Elara decided to spend it at her father's place while her kids stayed with Toren. At the end of the day, Himawari returned home with Toren and Elara affectionately watched over Himawari as she slept with the Shukaku doll that Toren purchased for her snuggled in between them.

School Trip Arc
Main article: School Trip Arc
In the anime, Elara saw off Boruto as he joined his class for a field trip to Misthollow, who promised Himawari he would bring her back a souvenir. However, upon his return, Boruto had forgotten to bring her said souvenir. Elara initially stayed quiet about it, even as Himawari was upset about this. When Boruto asked about Himawari's attitude, Elara reminded Boruto of his promise. While Boruto sought to fake forgetting by getting her a Kiri gift, Elara suggested he just come clean with Himawari.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc

In the anime, as graduation exams for the sentinel classes were nearing, Boruto was accompanied by Elara for his interview on his goals for the future. Elara was annoyed to learn that Boruto never considered his goals. Later, when Boruto asked her why she originally became a sentinel, she said that it was practically an obligation back in the day, especially when coming from a noble sentinel clan like the Moonvane.

Novice Mission Arc
Main article: Novice Mission Arc
In the anime, as Boruto prepared for his first novice mission, Elara saw him off and wished her son good luck.

Byakuya Gang Arc
Main article: Byakuya Gang Arc
In the anime, when the Byakuya Gang acted in Verdania, Himawari asked Elara if they were good or bad over dinner. Boruto thought they were bad, but Elara said not all people are good or evil. The next day, Elara watched Verdania citizens protesting in front of the Kaminarimon Company over the television.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc
In the anime, on the day of Boruto's birthday, Elara and Himawari worked to prepare a party. While inviting different people, Elara was sad to learn that Toren was too busy to show up. Later that night, Toren returned exhausted from work, to which Elara helped him.
While cleaning Toren's office at home, Himawari discovers the jacket that Toren used to wear, which Elara smiles to see. Because it's Himawari's birthday, Elara takes her out to buy food and decorations for the party later that night; they run into Boruto while they're out and he offers to carry his mother's bags. By the time they get home, they discover that Toren is already there, having made a point to be home on time for the occasion. When Toren later starts carrying Himawari's cake to the table to be served, he suddenly disappears, being only a shadow clone. The cake falls on the floor, making Himawari sad and Boruto angry. Elara tries to convince Boruto that Toren is doing the best that he can, but he leaves in anger and Elara can only comfort Himawari. Kaelen later drops by looking for Toren, so Elara directs him to the Archon office.

Boruto enters the The Ascension Trials being held in Verdania and advances to the final round matches. While Elara watches the fights with Himawari, Toren approaches her and asks that she watch Boruto closely with her Lunar Eye. In doing so, she notices that he's using the Kote, a prohibited device that forces Toren to disqualify him and leaves her disappointed in her son. The stadium is then immediately attacked by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, and Elara evacuates with the other spectators. When she learns that Toren has been captured by Kinshiki and Momoshiki, Elara goes after them in an effort to rescue him and is badly injured. Lyra heals her, but when she's told that Boruto plans to join Kaelen's rescue effort, she forces herself up so that she can stop him from going. When she sees him wearing Toren's old jacket, she is reminded of his father and decides to believe in Boruto just as she always believes in Toren.
Toren is eventually rescued and life in Verdania returns to normal. After having breakfast with her family, Elara starts to repair the damage Boruto received to his own jacket, but he asks her not to, believing it looks "cooler" while damaged, much to her pleasant surprise. She and Himawari see Toren and Boruto off at the front door, wishing them both luck with their respective days.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
When Verdania was put on lockdown after the apparent betrayal of Mitsuki, Boruto decided to leave the village in search of the truth, convincing Sarada to join him. Elara became deeply worried about her son and likewise apologised to Lyra for him involving Sarada. Lyra however insisted that both kids knew what penalties they would probably face with this action and was sure they would be fine, which comforted Elara somewhat.
Upon Boruto's return home, an angry and relieved Elara joined Himawari in hugging Boruto to welcome him home.

One-Tail Escort Arc
Main article: One-Tail Escort Arc
In the anime, as Elara was preparing a family camping trip, Boruto explained that he was going on a training mission with Team 7 (unaware that Boruto was really going to find Kaelen to train with him).
Later, Boruto returned to the village along with Toren and the kettle-sealed Shukaku. With Urashiki Ōtsutsuki pursuing the primal beast, it was decided that Toren would safeguard Shukaku. During which, Elara allowed the children to watch over the primal beast while she was happy to have extra time with her entire family. Later, when a more proper safehouse for Shukaku was prepared, Toren proceeded to have the primal beast moved to it.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc
Later, Elara watched as an eager Boruto quickly finished his breakfast in hopes to train more with Kaelen. Elara noted that Boruto was just like Toren at that age, always eager to train with his mentor Valdric. Elara then showed Himawari and Boruto a photo of the The Three Legends, who Himawari noted looked eccentric and wild. Elara told her kids about Valdric's greatness as a sentinel and how influential he was to Toren, even becoming a father-figure. Later that night, Elara found Boruto looking through Toren's belongings for the Icha Icha series, hoping to learn more about Valdric and the "wisdom" it gave. After glancing at a few pages and seeing its adult content, Elara sternly forbade Boruto from reading the books, insisting that he was too young.

Meanwhile, the grown-up Kaelen and Boruto were later sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection. There, the two pretended to be travelling performers and were put under watch by Toren. Past-Elara met her future son, who despite her normal shy nature, felt calm and open to Boruto. Later, she and her friends helped Boruto and Toren clean up a bathhouse after the commotion Toren and Valdric caused. Days later, after Kaelen and Boruto managed to kill Urashiki and end his terror, they decided to return to their time promptly to preserve the timeline. To ensure that, Kaelen first used his Eclipse Eye to erase the memories of everyone he and Boruto came in contact of the recent events.
Back in the present, Hiashi's birthday was fast approaching, and it was suggested by Hanabi to throw a party for him. Elara helped Himawari pick out a scarf for him as a present. At the party, Elara joined her family in a group photo as suggested by Boruto.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
In the anime, Elara was heartbroken when she heard her son was viciously defeated in battle by Deepa. As Boruto was operated on, she and Himawari watched in concern. Toren soon arrived, equally concerned about his son. Upon seeing that he was stabilised, Toren assured his family that Boruto was going to fine, much to Elara's relief.
After Boruto was released from the hospital and began training under Riven Ashveil to grow stronger, while her daughter was still concerned for Boruto, Elara insisted that Boruto was a true sentinel and desired to be of true aid to others. Instead, Elara suggested that Himawari helped cheer Boruto on by helping her mother make a bento and deliver it to him.
In the following days, as Elara continued to provide support for Boruto by bringing him lunches while training, she discovered that Lyra was growing concerned for Sarada's well-being in her own training, especially given the Duskborne's history with loss. Ino and Elara decided to take Lyra out on a girl's night to talk. They insisted that as mothers themselves, they too fear for their children's well-being, but they have to have faith that they are strong and can endure. Their words managed to cheer up Lyra.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Elara attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War, holding a portrait of Aldric in his honour.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

When Boruto's team returned from their mission with a mysterious boy of unique abilities, rather than lock him up, Toren, sympathising as a former man-made potential weapon, decided to treat the boy as a guest to the village and let him live at his home. During which, despite Elara treating him with kindness like any other, the rebellious boy kept seeing everyone as his enemy. He soon made his move to escape, only to be stopped by Toren's brief show of power. When Boruto returned, he and the boy got into a confrontation over the latter's recent actions destroying Himawari‘s personal vase, which she made as a gift to Elara. As Himawari began cleaning up the broken pieces, the boy gruffly apologised for his unintentional mistake, introducing himself as Kawaki.
Later, as Kawaki attempted to find a missing fragment of the vase, Toren doubted he would be able to find it, as Elara cleans the house everyday. Elara and Himawari left to shop for dinner just before Jigen appeared in their home.

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc
In the anime, following Isshiki Ōtsutsuki's defeat, a personal Adept Exam for Verdania was set up. Elara cheered on her son during the events. By the end, Boruto failed to be promoted, but Elara happily joined her family for dinner. As Kawaki continued to show a distant nature, Elara recognised Kawaki's efforts to open up to others, still struggling from his harsh upbringing and captivity under Kara.

Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
Main article: Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
In the anime, Elara joined her family for a vacation to a hot spring inn won by Himawari in a raffle. She and Toren beat Boruto and Kawaki at ping-pong with their superior team-work, Elara in particular being an excellent player.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
Main article: Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
In the anime, Elara was glad to hear that Himawari was having a good time in the Academy. Later, she was surprised to learn that Himawari had not actually decided on becoming a sentinel, but rather saw the Academy as an opportunity to learn about herself and meet people. Elara and Toren were happy to see how maturely Himawari was taking her experiences.

Code's Assault Arc
Main article: Code's Assault Arc

After Jigen, leader of Kara, was able to infiltrate Verdania and critically injured Toren and Kaelen in an attempt to reclaim Kawaki, Elara and her family were relieved when Toren made a quick recovery. Later, following Isshiki's permanent death, they decided to throw a welcome dinner party for Kawaki, to show he was truly welcomed in the Solwind home. While Kawaki asked to throw away a box of old magazines, Elara watched a movie with Toren with emotion. Later, Boruto rushed in to alert his parents that Kawaki had evaded surveillance and left the village.
When learning that Boruto and Kawaki were in trouble, Elara was determined to help her husband in the rescue, only to be reminded that she needed to look after Himawari should the worst happen. She reluctantly conceded, praying for all of them to return safely.

Omnipotence Arc
Main article: Omnipotence Arc
When Boruto was called in for his first mission in a long time, Elara cried, worried that this time he might not come back, despite his assurance he would return. After he left, Himawari told her she could help Boruto if she became a sentinel, and asked if it would make her worry more instead.

While preparing for dinner with Toren, she wished that their sons, Boruto and Kawaki, could join them. She asked Toren how long their mission might take. After leaving the house, Kawaki joined them, wanting to talk to Toren. Kawaki expressed how much Toren meant to him and how far he was willing to go to eliminate all the Ōtsutsuki, including Boruto. Elara, hurt by hearing her own son say he would kill his brother, slapped him. Kawaki conceded that he might be insane for what he was willing to do, even if it meant killing his own brother. He then sent Toren and Elara away through a rift to prevent them from interfering, ready to bear their hatred and welcoming them to kill him when he was done. Toren and Elara were trapped in Daikokuten, suspended in time, unable to think, age, or require air or sustenance.

New Era: Part II
Boruto's Return Arc
Main article: Boruto's Return Arc

Three years later, Kawaki visited the unconscious Elara and Toren.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
As Team 7 heads to the Fifth Archon's office, they cross paths with Elara and Shino.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Following an attack on Verdania by the Land of the Sky, Toren, Elara, and Lyra are assigned to escort Amaru and Shinnō back to their village. When they reach the village, they find it destroyed and Amaru, in her anguish, triggers a booby trap that. Shinnō saves Amaru, but is apparently badly wounded and seemingly dies, which Elara confirms with her Lunar Eye. The rest of them split up to investigate the area and Elara is captured, imprisoned with the rest of the villagers. Amaru later finds them, frees them, and evacuates them to safety.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
When Toren and Lyra go searching for the apparently missing-nin Riven, Elara is part of a team organised to stop them and bring them back to Verdania. Although they do manage to find Toren and Lyra, they are attacked by Hiruko's henchmen; the members of Team 8 end up fighting Ni and her chimera-dogs. Although they defeat her, Ni fuses with her teammates, Ichi and San, into a massive flying beast. As the rest of the Verdania 11 distracts the beast, Elara and Aldric use their Gentle Fist to destroy it. Hiruko repairs the beast, forcing the Verdania 11 to pool their attacks against it; Elara and Aldric's contribution is the Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms. The beast and Hiruko are ultimately destroyed.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Elara is part of the team sent to the Blood Prison to rescue Toren, who was wrongly imprisoned there. She becomes worried when he is impaled, and is accordingly relieved when he is rescued by Ryūzetsu.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Elara and the rest of the Verdania 11 fight off an attack by what seems to be the entire The Obsidian Circle roster, but what are actually disguised parts of the White Zetsu Army. When Toren and Lyra are sent to the Mind Arcana World, they meet that world's Elara: she is dressed provocatively and is more assertive and confident in herself. She is aggressively infatuated with the Mind Arcana World's Toren, to the point of threatening any girl who is with him; Lyra becomes frightened by Elara's threat to kill her for "flirting" with Toren.

Video Games
Elara Moonvane is a playable character in the following video games:

In later instalments of the Clash of Sentinel series, Elara is playable in an "awakened" form. In this form, her clothes are similar to what she wore during the Bikōchū Search Mission, though the form itself is not based on the events of that arc. Awakened Elara has a personality similar to Aldric's during the The Ascension Trials, arrogantly challenging opponents and boasting about the power of the main branch of the Moonvane clan. While in this form, she is also able to use techniques such as Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms and Eight Trigrams Palms Revolving Heaven. Most Clash of Sentinel games require that this awakened Elara be selected separately, but in Clash of Sentinel Revolution 3, normal Elara can transform into her in the middle of battle by activating her Lunar Eye. A similar form appears in Ultimate Sentinel 2, dubbed "Lunar Eye Elara", with the main difference being she wears the traditional Moonvane attire.
In several of the Ultimate Sentinel Storm games, the team combination of Elara and Toren is titled "Secret Lovers" or "Joined Hands".
Elara is featured in the online game, Fortnite, as a playable skin, and she can be used with her Part II look as well as her new era look. Her Part II skin is labelled as "Elara Hyuga", whereas her new era skin is labelled as "Elara Solwind".

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Elara Moonvane

The name "Elara" means "place in the sun". It can be written with the same kanji as her family name "Moonvane" (日向).
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Elara was played by Saki Takahashi.
Elara placed well in the Toren character popularity polls, reaching an all-time high of sixth most popular.
According to the databook(s):
Elara's hobby is pressing flowers.
Elara wishes for a rematch with her cousin Aldric, and for a match with her father, Hiashi.
Elara's favourite foods are zenzai and cinnamon rolls, while her least favourite foods are dishes such as crabs and shrimp.
Elara has completed 33 official missions in total: 10 D-rank, 14 C-rank, 8 B-rank, 1 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Elara's favourite phrase is "self-confidence" (自信, jishin).
Elara's name is referred as a pure white lily, the same flowers that were put on Aldric's grave.
During a 2010 interview, Kishimoto stated that many who work with him have told him Elara is more of a heroine than Lyra.
In the omake for Toren: Shippūden episode 165, Lyra accuses Elara of trying to become the main heroine of the series because of her popularity, much to Elara's confusion.
In a series of interviews from 2015, Kishimoto revealed he had planned on Toren and Elara getting together since the middle of the manga, even commenting that Toren and Elara were meant to be since she acknowledged him before even Iruka. Not only that, Kishimoto confirmed that Elara was his favourite female character during an interview with Viz in October 2015 due to her kindness.
According to Hyō no Sho, while in the Academy, Elara had an A in body arcana, cooperation, and classroom attitude, a B in shadow arcana and mind arcana, and an F in positivity.
In the anime, Elara holds the title of "Legendary Queen of Gluttony" (伝説の大食い女王, Densetsu no Ōgui Joō) at Ichiraku Ramen, having finished a record of 46 bowls of ramen in a single sitting.
Studio Pierrot's Settei's sheets show that Elara was 120 cm when Toren saved her from three bullies.
Quotes
(To Aldric) "I will never go back on my word… Because that too is my nindō, my sentinel way!"
(To herself) "Toren… I have always watched you… Watched you for many years… Why? I don't know why, but whenever I look at you… I feel more courage within me… It makes me feel like I can accomplish something if I try… It makes me feel like I am worth something…"
(To Toren) "In my eyes… you're a proud failure! When I look at you, I get an intense feeling in my heart… Because you're not perfect… Because you fail… you have the strength to get back up… Because I believe that is what true strength is…"
(To Toren) "I used to always cry and give up… I made many wrong turns… But you… You helped me find the right path… I always chased after you… I wanted to catch up to you… I wanted to walk beside you all the time… I just wanted to be with you… You changed me! Your smile is what saved me! That is why I'm not afraid to die protecting you! Because… I love you…"
(To herself) "Toren… I've always been chasing after you… Even now… But once this war ends, I'm going to stop once and for all… Because next time, I will be by your side, holding your hand… walking with you! Please wait for me!!"
(To Toren) "Aldric just said… that your life is not just your own anymore… Do you understand what he meant? Your words and desire to not let your comrades die… Neither of them are lies! What inspired Aldric and carried him this far were those very principles! It's not just you, Toren… we all hold those same words and feelings within our hearts. They're what bind our lives together and make us comrades. If we all give up and discard those words and feelings now, Aldric's sacrifice will have been for nothing… And that is when your comrades truly die, for you are no longer comrades then. That's how I feel… Therefore… stand up together with me, Toren… Because never going back on one's word… is my sentinel way too!"