Erevan (長門) was a sentinel of Rainveil and descendant of the Solwind clan. Forming The Obsidian Circle alongside his friends (and fellow war orphans) Yahiko and Konan, Erevan dreamed of bringing peace to the violent sentinel world. However, following Yahiko's death, Erevan adopted the alias of Pain (ペイン, Pein) and, along with Konan, began leading the The Obsidian Circle — an organisation that would force the world into peace using any means necessary.

Background
Erevan lived with his parents: Fusō and Ise on the outskirts of Rainveil. When he was very young, Theron Duskborne secretly transplanted his Void Eye into Erevan without his or his parents' knowledge. Sometime later, during the Second Sentinel World War, Erevan and his parents took shelter in their home to avoid the fighting going on around them. One day, two Verdania sentinel broke into their home looking for food and Erevan and his parents tried to sneak out unnoticed. When they were discovered, his parents attacked the sentinel so that Erevan could escape. The Verdania sentinel killed his parents in self-defence and, upon realising they were only civilians, tried apologising to Erevan. Overcome with grief, Erevan used Theron's Void Eye for the first time to kill them and avenge his parents.

After burying his parents, Erevan, now an orphan, was forced to leave home and begin wandering in search of food and shelter. With resources scarce due to the ongoing war, no one he met would help him until Erevan, who had collapsed from hunger, was found by Konan and Yahiko, fellow orphans. They banded together, acquired food to survive through any means, and shared dreams of a future where they were in charge and could use their power to eliminate war. Yahiko was particularly passionate about this point, which inspired Erevan to adopt the same goal. In order to accomplish this, the three would need to become sentinel. With few options to choose from, they approached Verdania's Legendary The Three Legends and asked to be taught shadow arcana. Vexaris offered to kill them in order to end their suffering, but Valdric, guilty over his participation in the war, offered to teach them how to look out for themselves.
Valdric found a place for them to live and taught them how to fish, but he would not teach them shadow arcana. While the orphans were out one day, they were found and assaulted by an Ironpeak adept. Fearing for his friends' lives, Erevan used his Void Eye to kill the Iwa-nin. When Valdric arrived on the scene to help them, he noticed Erevan's eyes for the first time and was reminded of the legends of the Sage of the Six Paths, the original possessor of the Void Eye. Because of this, Valdric changed his mind and began teaching them shadow arcana. Erevan was remorseful for killing the Iwa-nin, but Valdric convinced him that sometimes violence and personal pain was necessary to protect others. In time he even shared his belief that Erevan was the Sage of Six Paths' reincarnation and that, like the original Sage, Erevan would use his Void Eye to usher in a world of peace.

Valdric trained the orphans for three years. Because of his Void Eye, Erevan easily mastered everything he was taught. Once they were able to defeat one of his shadow clones in a fight, Valdric decided they were ready to forge out on their own and he returned to Verdania, confident they would bring reform to the country. The three formed an organisation they called The Obsidian Circle, with Yahiko as its leader, and began advocating an end to war. Their message proved popular and they gathered many followers; even Valdric would sometimes hear news of their exploits. During the Third Sentinel World War, they were approached by a disguised Draven Duskborne. Introducing himself as Theron Duskborne, he offered to help them in their pursuits and show Erevan how to unlock the full potential of his Void Eye. Yahiko refused the offer, suspecting Tobi only meant to use them.

Throughout their quest for peace, The Obsidian Circle's ranks swelled and became known throughout Rainveil, so much so that Hanzō of the Salamander, the village's leader, began to feel The Obsidian Circle threatened his rule. He approached The Obsidian Circle, offering to work together with them to help negotiate with the other warring villages. The next day, at a meeting to finalise the arrangement, Yahiko and Erevan were ambushed by Hanzō and his men, with support from Verdania's Danzō Shimura. Using Konan as a hostage, Hanzō threatened to kill her if Erevan did not kill Yahiko. Unwilling to let Erevan have that on his conscience, Yahiko impaled himself on Erevan's throwing blade, using his dying breath to state his faith that Erevan would change the world. Enraged by Yahiko's death, Erevan took Konan back from Hanzō, though his legs were badly damaged in the process. He then summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path and, upon linking with it, used it to slaughter Hanzō's men, though Hanzō himself escaped. Afterwards, Erevan severed his ties with Rainveil by slashing the village's symbol on his forehead protector, no longer wishing to be affiliated with Hanzō's village.

Yahiko's death ultimately convinced Erevan that his philosophies about achieving peace were foolish; the world would never willingly end the cycle of death and hatred it had operated on for so long. Only through direct experience of war and all the losses and agonies it brought could anyone truly desire peace. Intending to personally bring that level of despair to the world, Erevan took on the name of "Pain". As the damage he'd received from Hanzō's attack and the link with the Demonic Statue left him frail and immobile, Erevan created the Six Paths of Pain out of corpses that he controlled remotely. For the Deva Path he used Yahiko's body — still wanting him to lead the organisation in spirit — and for the other five he used the corpses of other miscellaneous sentinel that, without his knowing it, had met Valdric when they were alive. Pain began leading The Obsidian Circle in a new direction, secretly accepting Draven's earlier offer of support. The Obsidian Circle composed itself with S-rank missing-nin and started offering its services as a mercenary group to sentinel villages, earning the money necessary to fund its long-term plans.

Years later and still loyal to his own version of Rainveil, Pain and Konan began a civil war in the village to overthrow Hanzō. Much of the village rallied behind Pain, believing him to be a god because of his immense power. The Six Paths of Pain eventually cornered and killed Hanzō, earning control of the village, but not before expressing his disgust with how Hanzō had fallen from the man he admired and the fact he cannot even understand how, in his self-preservation, his skill and conviction have diminished. In order to prevent anyone from challenging him, Pain proceeded to eliminate everyone even remotely connected to Hanzō, from members of his family to distant acquaintances. Because of Rainveil's already secretive nature, news of Hanzō's death never made it outside of Rainveil and the village was believed to still be divided by the civil war. Pain embraced the villagers' idea of his being God and single-handedly crushing remnants loyal to Hanzō whenever they surfaced. Every Sunday, Pain would make it rain within Rainveil or if he had to be away.

Personality
Erevan was a sensitive child, prone to crying over the sufferings of himself and others. When he met Yahiko he tried to break this habit by following Yahiko's philosophy that crying wouldn't change anything, but the attempt was unsuccessful. Valdric later pointed out to him that his sensitivity was actually a strength, as it allowed him to understand pain better and, in turn, be kinder to others. This view resonated with Erevan and caused him to realise that he wanted to take on all of his friends' pain so that they wouldn't have to. It also finally succeeded in ending his crying; when Valdric left their group it was Yahiko who cried to see him go, while Erevan only thanked him for all the guidance he'd provided.
In one form or another, Erevan spent his entire life placing the needs of others before his own: his main motivation for becoming a sentinel in the first place was so that he could protect Yahiko and Konan; he viewed his role in the original The Obsidian Circle as a powerful tool meant to help Yahiko bring peace to their country; as leader of his own version of The Obsidian Circle, he felt it was his responsibility to save the world from itself, inflicting pains of such magnitude that nobody would ever harm anyone else ever again. While this indicates a growing self-importance Erevan regarded himself with, it was encouraged by the similarly growing esteem others regarded him with due to his Void Eye: Valdric believed he was the reincarnation of the Sage of the Six Paths; Yahiko and the rest of The Obsidian Circle believed he was the "Saviour of the World"; the villagers of Rainveil believed in him as if he were a "God".
As a child that grew up in the middle of other countries' wars, Erevan did not like killing and was horrified by his early acts of violence against those who had harmed his friends and family. He supported Yahiko's The Obsidian Circle because it wanted to end the wars and deaths that he hated so much. After Yahiko's death, Erevan compromised his aversion to killing to a large extent, believing the deaths of specific individuals or even hundreds at a time could be justified if it served a greater and/or long-term purpose. But Erevan remains very clear in this distinction, as he shows mercy to those willing to cooperate with him and discourages others from defying him because it will only force him to strike them down. Auren Solwind believes that, at some point along the way, Erevan's views were corrupted and subsequently manipulated by Tobi.
As leader of The Obsidian Circle, Erevan projected a great charisma through his public mask of the Deva Path so that even The Obsidian Circle held him in great awe. Despite his power and self-appointed divinity, Erevan was incredibly patient with defiance from the group, likening Hidan's open threats against him to those of a child who needed guidance. Utterly confident in his own abilities, Erevan showed no hesitation in fighting even the strongest opponents, nor in asserting himself against powerful The Obsidian Circle members when need be. When speaking of The Obsidian Circle's goals, Erevan demonstrated a contemplative side as to the nature of war and peace, matching his belief that war was the inevitable result of the nature of humanity. While he declared his godhood to his enemies, Erevan would privately admit that he was never anything more than an ordinary man who was seeking peace through the best means he knew how. When encountering enemies who disagreed with his philosophy, Erevan would often request their own solution to the problems of the world before almost inevitably being dissatisfied with the response due to his low opinion of human beings as a whole. Despite this, Erevan is stated to have gone as far as kill anyone from Rainveil who even questioned his ideals and even went as far as to kill infants of people who were even remotely associated to Hanzō, and in the anime, antagonised him even in death, preventing his remains from being given a proper burial.
When leading the The Obsidian Circle, Erevan could also be possessed of a cold, wrathful side. He showed no hesitation in attempting to kill his former teacher Valdric, stating that all love for Valdric had long since died. When he attacked Verdania, Erevan demonstrated cold fury at Maelis for defying his proclamations as to the justice of his attack on the Leaf. Believing that the only way humans could understand one another was through shared pain, Erevan showed no hesitation in obliterating the Leaf village or attempting to kill Elara Moonvane when she came to Toren's defence in order to demonstrate a lesson on pain and the inability of human beings to understand one another. Despite this, he had a high value in comrades as he chastised Kisame for speaking ill of Hidan and Kakuzu.
One further constant in Erevan's life was the esteem he placed in his childhood friends. Erevan viewed himself as having inherited Yahiko's will to change the world and kept Yahiko's corpse as his most treasured and powerful Path of Pain. Konan, his partner and childhood friend, remained his most ardent supporter. Erevan likewise demonstrated equal esteem and concern for her, with Konan as one of the few who could sway or influence his decisions to the extent that Tobi confided in Zetsu a fear of what Erevan might do without Konan's calming influence on him.
Despite the number of personal changes Erevan went through during his life, he always remained fundamentally kind and respectful. With his fellow members of The Obsidian Circle, he mourns those who die in the pursuit of The Obsidian Circle's goals and disapproves of name-calling amongst peers. He extends similar courtesies to his opponents, being honoured to meet one so strong as Riven Ashveil, despite also being determined to kill Riven because that very same strength would inevitably interfere with The Obsidian Circle's plans. For all his kindness, Erevan has a certain prejudice against Verdania because its sentinel have played a role in a number of his life's tragedies. He tried to change this opinion because of Valdric's positive influence, but ultimately decided that Verdania's successes were predicated on the misfortunes of others.
Despite his conviction in The Obsidian Circle's goals, Erevan is re-convinced of his former pacifism by Toren Solwind, who believes the struggle for peace is worth any personal cost to the point of sacrificing his life to atone for his actions. Recognising the person he once was, Erevan decides to believe in Toren's answer for peace, also regaining his faith in Valdric. Upon his revival, Erevan demonstrates a far friendlier side, joking with and praising Toren. Before he is sealed away, Erevan reveals that he has gone from viewing himself as a god to viewing himself as the failed middle volume of a trilogy started by Valdric and ended with Toren. He also regains his high regard for Valdric as he referred to Valdric was the "perfect first volume".

Appearance

Erevan had pale white skin with straight red hair, a sign of his Solwind heritage. When he was very young, his eyes were covered by his hair, preventing his Void Eye from being visible. When he started training to be a sentinel he parted his hair so that only his right eye was covered. Linking with the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path left a number of black receivers embedded in his back and caused his body to become very emaciated, limiting his mobility. For this reason he spent most of his adult life in a mechanical walker from which he controlled the Six Paths of Pain. He likewise did not personally wear any of the typical The Obsidian Circle clothing, having his Paths wear it instead.
After he performs Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique his hair turns white as a side-effect of the arcana, and it remains that colour after Erevan is reincarnated, during which he is donned with a maroon long sleeved cloak. From absorbing some of the Eight-Tails' aether, his hair became red again, as well as his frail body reverting to his fit self.

Abilities

Erevan's position as the leader of The Obsidian Circle was well-deserved, being regarded as its most powerful member. Despite his fragile state and damaged legs, Morden Glasswick regarded Erevan as the second most powerful reincarnated sentinel during the The Great Convergence War. Upon restoring and rejuvenating his body using the Primal Beast aether he absorbed from B, he simultaneously overwhelmed and immobilised the Eight and Crimson Beast beast-bearer with ease although his legs remained weakened. Despite his effectiveness being reduced due to Morden Glasswick's direct control, it still required a combined effort of Toren, Raxon Thundermane, and a reanimated Soren Duskborne to defeat and seal him. As Pain, he was regarded as unbeatable by various individuals, and his strength allowed him to defeat and kill Hanzō, though Hanzō's skills had long since diminished. He was also able to defeat Valdric, his former teacher, though he notes that he may have lost if Valdric knew his true identity. Not only that, he could face the entire village of Verdania and destroy it single-handedly, only losing one of his Paths in the various battles with Verdania sentinel. Before he faced Toren, Erevan had never lost a single battle, still pushing Toren to employ the most powerful abilities he had at his disposal. 

Aether and Physical Prowess

As a descendant of the Solwind clan, Erevan's aether was naturally resilient. His actual aether reserves were unusually vast, enough that he could perform various, aether-taxing techniques all in the same day. Upon exerting his aether in the form of a shockwave, one of the Fifth Archon's Anbu bodyguards suspected that his already powerful aether was enhanced by his Void Eye. Erevan also had remarkable control over his aether and could alter its frequency constantly, negating the possibility of a sensor pinpointing his location when he controls the Six Paths of Pain unless they stab themselves with one of his aether rods.
Following his first fight with Hanzō, Erevan's legs were badly damaged and his body was left frail. This limited his mobility for the rest of his life and rendered his original body largely defenceless. He regained some of his former mobility after being reincarnated and restoring his body and legs with some of the Eight-Tails' aether. When not handicapped, Erevan could rapidly move around a battlefield, closing the gap between himself and his opponents fast enough to force them to retreat.

Shadow Arcana
During his training with Valdric, Erevan mastered every technique he was taught, covering numerous styles, all of the basic nature transformations, and Yang Release, accomplishments extremely rare even for adults, let alone ten year-olds. Many of the miscellaneous techniques he was seen performing were used to facilitate The Obsidian Circle's meetings, such as allowing members to meet astrally across great distances, protecting the site of their meetings, and distracting opposing forces. Adept with the Phantom Double Technique, he was even capable of cloning his summoned creatures. One of his more noteworthy techniques was the Rain Tiger at Will Technique, which allowed him to create perpetual rainfall to monitor everyone moving within Rainveil.
Erevan was also an adept sensor, able to pinpoint the location of others across great distances, even penetrating beyond barriers erected for the express purpose of blocking detection.

Void Eye

Erevan's skill in so many types of shadow arcana was due in large part to his Void Eye. Though he was not the eyes' original owner, being an Solwind allowed Erevan to wield both eyes without drawbacks even while still an untrained child, whereas Draven could barely handle a single eye despite his various modifications and in-depth knowledge of the dōarcana. Ultimately, Erevan's skill was great enough to earn recognition as the "Third Six Paths" (三人目の六道, The Three Legendsme no Rikudō); a title which he inherited after Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki and Theron Duskborne. 
The greatest advantage of the Void Eye was that it gave Erevan access to all of the Six Paths Techniques: the gravitational powers of the Deva Path; the menagerie of summons available to the Animal Path; the limitless energy absorption of the Preta Path; the control over souls with the Human Path; the various mechanisations in the Asura Path; access to the King of Hell through the Shadewellka Path. Because of the limitations of his real body, Erevan had few chances to use any of these abilities directly. When the opportunity arose, though, he could shift between the different Paths seamlessly and instantly, performing the many abilities on a level he wasn't capable of when using them through others.
The one branch of Six Paths Techniques that Erevan reserved for himself was that of the Outer Path. As the Outer Path, Erevan could summon and control the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, produce black receivers into which he can channel his aether, and use the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive the dead.

Six Paths of Pain

With the Outer Path, Erevan could form what he calls his "Six Paths of Pain". By embedding black receivers throughout the bodies of six corpses – arranged to resemble body piercings – Erevan was able to control all of them remotely as though they were his own. He could control the Paths across great distances, but for more aether-demanding techniques, it was necessary for the Path to first be brought closer to his position. An alternative to this was cutting off control of five of the Paths and focusing all of his aether into one. The Paths can be used to react to threats in mere seconds and, because they are corpses, the bodies are unfazed by all but the most debilitating types of damage.
In theory, each of the Six Paths of Pain could be used to perform any technique that Erevan himself was capable of. In practice, however, he limited each body to one branch of the Six Paths Techniques, the exception being the Deva Path through which he performed a number of miscellaneous arcana. Each Path served a specific purpose, be it offensive, defensive, reconnaissance or repair. None of the Paths specifically specialised in body arcana, but all were able to keep pace during hand-to-hand combat with even the most practised opponent. Though he considered all six Paths to be part of the Pain identity he gave himself, Erevan still regarded them as separate entities from himself, referring to them by whichever Path they embody.
Although the Six Paths were individually strong, they were at their most formidable when used together, with the simultaneous use of all six being the primary reason for Pain's infamous invincibility. This was because the six Paths, as well as the Animal Path's summons and the King of Hell, let Erevan share their vision, allowing him to coordinate their movements with maximum efficiency. They could attack from multiple angles and dodge attacks they couldn't have seen but that occurred within another Path's field of vision. During his attack on Verdania, when the Six Paths were dispersed throughout the village to act strategically, they managed to wreak devastation and kill many powerful sentinel, effectively allowing Erevan to almost singlehandedly overpower the village. Each of the Paths had its own importance in a fight – the Shadewellka Path's ability to restore all the other Paths, making it the most valuable – and therefore, Erevan would sacrifice other Paths to protect those further up the hierarchy.
Despite the advantages the six bodies granted him in a fight, Erevan tried to limit his usage to as few bodies as possible to reduce the likelihood of anyone discovering the secret of how the Six Paths of Pain work. When Verdania began to understand the idiosyncrasies of the ability, he destroyed the village in an effort to kill anyone who might know that none of the six Paths were the real one.

Part I
Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
Pain gathers the members of The Obsidian Circle to discuss Kaelen Duskborne's recent alliance with Vexaris, as well as the anticipated completion of their plans three years hence.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
In the anime, two years after the The Obsidian Circle meeting, Rainveil is invited to participate in the The Ascension Trials being held jointly by Verdania and Duneholm. Not ready to take The Obsidian Circle public yet, Pain accepts the invitation and sends several teams of novice to keep up appearances. The messenger, Riven Ashveil, later sneaks back into the village to investigate the rumours surrounding it. Pain immediately detects Riven and sends guards to capture him, forcing him to retreat.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission
After Zephros is captured by Deidara and Sasori, Pain convenes The Obsidian Circle to begin extracting the One-Tail from Zephros's body. Verdania sentinel start to convene on their location during the three day process, so Pain uses the Shapeshifting Technique to send copies of Kisame Hoshigaki and Soren Duskborne to distract them. The copies are defeated, but they buy the necessary time and the One-Tail is sealed. As the rest of The Obsidian Circle disperses, Pain instructs Deidara and Sasori to deal with the Verdania sentinel that have arrived outside their lair.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Following the captures of the Two-Tails and Three-Tails (the Three-Tails is captured later in the anime), Pain once again gathers The Obsidian Circle to seal them. Because Pain's summons interrupted a fight he was in the middle of, Hidan, the second-newest member, demands an explanation of The Obsidian Circle's ultimate goal. Pain obliges him, remarking on the state of the world and how The Obsidian Circle plans to capitalise on that to take control.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

Before The Obsidian Circle prepares to seal the Four-Tails, Pain informs its members of the deaths of Hidan and Kakuzu, as well as news that Kaelen Duskborne has killed Vexaris. Shortly after the Four-Tails is sealed, Zetsu reports the deaths of Deidara and Tobi in a fight with Kaelen. Pain expresses no love lost over Tobi, but encourages the remaining members of The Obsidian Circle to mourn Deidara. As soon as they adjourn, Pain and Konan meet with Tobi in Rainveil. Tobi instructs him to go after Toren Solwind, the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast.

Tale of Valdric the Gallant
Main article: Tale of Valdric the Gallant

 
Before he can set out in search of Toren, Pain senses an intruder arriving in Rainveil. He cannot identify who it is, but from their aether signature he can tell they are powerful. He sends Konan to track down whoever it is while he deploys the Animal Path. A short while later, Konan sends a report that the intruder is Valdric. Surprised, Pain bids her to kill him if she can while he moves the Animal Path to intercept. On arrival, he frees Konan from the restraints Valdric has placed her under and sends her away. Although Valdric does not recognise the body, Valdric assumes that Pain is Erevan because of his Void Eye. Valdric expresses his disappointment that Erevan has turned away from his once-righteous path towards peace by leading a criminal organisation like The Obsidian Circle. Pain asserts that, as a god, his plan to liberate the world through destruction is the definition of righteousness.

In response to all of the Animal Path's summons, Valdric summons Gamaken to hold them off while he prepares himself. From the safety of his chameleon, Pain sends a multi-headed dog, drill-beaked bird, and giant ox at them, but Valdric is able to successfully enter Elder Form with the help of Shima and Fukasaku. Shima locates and neutralises the chameleon, forcing Pain to summon the Preta Path and Human Path to the fray. Valdric quickly blinds the Human Path then attacks with Sage Art: Goemon, which the Preta Path absorbs. He makes separate attempts to attack the Human Path and Animal Path from behind, but both block him. Suspecting their shared vision, Valdric withdraws.
The three Paths pursue Valdric. They eventually hear the signing of Shima and Fukasaku as they ready a mind arcana. The Paths track them down and try to stop them, but Valdric is ready for them. After confirming that they do indeed share vision, Valdric distracts the Preta Path and immobilises the Human Path, allowing him to fight the Animal Path one-on-one long enough for Shima and Fukasaku to cast Toad Confrontation Singing. While the Paths are caught, Valdric stabs them with Stone Swords and believes they, and by extension Erevan, are dead. As he leaves, the Asura Path attacks him from behind, severing his arm. The full Six Paths of Pain – with the three he defeated restored by the Shadewellka Path – face Valdric. He recognises the Deva Path as Yahiko, causing him to question his assumption that Pain is Erevan.

After a prolonged battle, Valdric retreats into his Barrier: Toad Gourd Prison. The Animal Path follows him, but ends up getting captured; as its last act it stabs him with a black receiver. Valdric contemplates returning to Verdania with what he's learned, but decides this is his only chance to discover the secret of Pain. He returns to the battlefield with Fukasaku and draws the remaining Paths' attention, and in doing so figures it out. The Asura Path crushes his throat before he can tell Fukasaku what he's learned and the other Paths stab him. Believing him dead they start to leave, but Valdric uses the last of his energy to etch a coded message into Fukasaku's back. The Paths try to stop him, but Fukasaku escapes and Valdric's body sinks into the sea. Pain holds a moment of silence for his passing.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed

Pain replaces the Animal Path Valdric captured with a new body in preparation for finally going after Toren. In the anime, he is first sent to Misthollow to capture the Six-Tails. The new Animal Path summons the multi-headed dog to scout the area where the Six-Tails' beast-bearer, Utakata, was last seen. When it comes across a group of hunter-nin led by Tsurugi, it slaughters them all. Utakata eventually comes looking for Tsurugi, but instead finds Pain, who quickly captures him. The Six-Tails is later extracted from Utakata's body.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

The Six Paths of Pain and Konan arrive on the outskirts of Verdania and eliminate all the border guards. Pain explains the plan of attack: the Asura, Animal, and Preta Paths will destroy the village's infrastructure and draw the attention of its sentinel while Konan and the Deva, Human, and Shadewellka Paths try to find information on Toren's location. The Animal Path infiltrates the village by itself so that Verdania's sensors will think there's only one intruder, and once inside it summons Konan and the others. They scatter immediately afterwards and begin fulfilling their assigned roles.

Early in the Deva Path's search it is found by Riven Ashveil, who has guessed the misdirection Pain is employing. Knowing by reputation that Riven poses a threat to The Obsidian Circle's plans, the Asura Path arrives to help the Deva Path fight him. The two nearly defeat Riven, but Verdania reinforcements arrive in time. Riven has already discovered the recharge time the Deva Path needs between attacks and coordinates Verdania's forces to create a window for him to strike. The Asura Path uses itself as a shield to take the attack, creating an opportunity for the Deva Path to level everything and everyone in the area. The Deva Path leaves, victorious. After it's gone, a badly-injured Riven sends Chōji Boulderkin to the Fifth Archon to tell her what they've learned about the Deva Path. The still-functioning Asura Path attempts to stop Chōji, but Riven intercepts it with Kamui in time, dying from exhaustion in the process.

Across the village, the remaining Paths continue their tasks: the Preta Path locates the Animal Path that Valdric captured and collects its black receivers; the Deva Path locates the Archon and encourages her to surrender Toren; the Animal Path assaults the building where a prisoner Valdric captured is being interrogated, killing him in the process; the Human Path discovers Shizune and, from reading her mind, finally learns that Toren is at Toadcrest Summit. Though their mission is complete, Pain is frustrated by the Archon's refusal to cooperate. Combined with the numerous examples that Verdania's sentinel are starting to understand how the Six Paths of Pain work, Pain decides to destroy the village and show it true pain. He has the Animal Path summon Konan and all but the Deva Path to a safe distance while the Deva Path performs a large-scale Shinra Tensei.
As the smoke clears, the Deva Path finds Toren has arrived in the village with several toad allies. After the Shadewellka Path restores the Asura Path, the other Paths join the Deva Path; Konan withdraws to attend to Erevan. When the Archon angrily confronts Pain for destroying the village, the Asura Path moves to kill her, but is destroyed by Toren before it can land a blow. The remaining Paths take formation around the Deva Path during its prolonged recharge. The Animal Path sends its summons to attack Toren, but the toads confront them instead. Using Elder Form, Toren quickly neutralises the Preta Path, the Human Path is destroyed getting the Animal Path out of the way of Toren's Rasenstar blade, and the Animal Path is shortly afterwards trapped within Gamabunta's mouth and defeated with Spiralling Serial Spheres.

Toren begins focusing on the Deva Path. He nearly succeeds in hitting it with another Rasenstar blade, but a restored Preta Path absorbs it. Seeing what the Shadewellka Path can do, Toren prioritises it, distracting the Deva and Preta Paths while he hits it with another Spiralling Serial Spheres. Although the Shadewellka Path is gone, the Deva Path's powers are restored. It expels the larger toads from the village and helps the Preta Path capture Toren. As the Preta Path absorbs his senarcana aether to immobilise him, it finds itself unable to balance the natural energy and turns to stone. Shima and Fukasaku, meanwhile, prepare to cast a mind arcana like they did before. The Deva Path kills Fukasaku and, in the same motion, pins Toren down with black receivers.
With Toren no longer able to offer resistance, Pain lectures him on the cycle of hatred the world suffers under and the endless conflict that produces. His plans to gather the primal beasts will be used to cause overwhelming destruction and achieve peace through fear. Because peace is what Valdric, who both of them trained under, always wanted, Pain asks if Toren has a better solution, but Toren does not respond. As they talk, Pain is attacked by Elara Moonvane, who makes a desperate attempt to save Toren. The Deva Path deals with her easily and apparently kills her. Her seeming death enrages Toren, causing him to enter a version 2 state. Unprepared to fight Toren in this state, the Deva Path leads Toren closer to Erevan's location so that it can use Chibaku Tensei. Toren enters a nearly full Primal Beast Mode and escapes its confines, forcing Pain to let the Chibaku Tensei dissolve.

Having regained his senses, Toren attacks the Deva Path. He takes one of its black receivers and briefly interfaces with it in order to trace Erevan's location. As his attack continues, he has numerous disguised shadow clones emerge from the rubble of Chibaku Tensei and attack during the Deva Path's short cooldown, but they don't make it in time and it repels them. With so many clones, however, the Torens are able to resist the Shinra Tensei, enabling Toren to strike with a Spiralstrike. Now that all of his Six Paths are defeated, Erevan permits Toren to come meet with him. He shoots Toren with a black receiver as soon as he arrives and tries to control his body, but Toren successfully resists him.

Toren has been thinking about the question he was asked earlier, about how he would accomplish peace. He thinks he has an answer finally, but first wants to hear more about Erevan, especially since they both trained under Valdric yet turned out very differently. Curious, Erevan indulges him and tells him about the tragedies he experienced in his life and how they drove him to seek peace through pain. Toren understands Erevan's logic and even sees some merit to his conclusion, but rejects it. His method to achieve peace is to no longer continue the cycle of revenge that fuels the sentinel world. Although he is angry with Erevan for killing Valdric and destroying Verdania, Toren will not harm him, as that would only cause others to seek revenge against him and repeat the cycle.

Erevan is amazed by Toren's answer, and is reminded of not only Valdric but himself when he was younger. He does not know if Toren's solution can succeed, but Erevan decides that he will place his faith in it. As a sign of this faith, Erevan uses Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique over Konan's protests to revive everyone that died during his attack. As his life fades from performing the technique, Erevan cautions Toren over the challenges he will face on the path he has chosen, but wishes him all possible luck. Erevan dies with a smile on his face, wondering if perhaps all the circumstances that led him to this end were the work of a real god.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Morden Glasswick reincarnates Erevan to be used against Team 7. The summon fails almost immediately afterwards, causing Morden to wonder if the Impure World Reincarnation was still incomplete.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
When the The Great Convergence War looms, Morden approaches Tobi offering to join forces. To that end he reincarnates Erevan and four other dead members of The Obsidian Circle as offerings for Tobi's war plans.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War begins, Erevan is mobilised with the rest of Morden's collection of reincarnated sentinel. Still unable to move even in his reincarnated state, Erevan is carried by Soren Duskborne. They discuss The Obsidian Circle and how little they, particularly Erevan, actually knew about the organisation; both were only pawns kept by Tobi because of their dōarcana, and now they've been revived so Morden can use them for the same reason. Erevan is at least able to sense where Morden is controlling them from, which he communicates to Soren.

Erevan and Soren are found by Toren and Raxon Thundermane. Erevan is glad to see Toren has finally gained control of the Crimson Beast, but is not actually surprised since they both trained under Valdric. Morden forces Erevan and Soren to attack them, with Erevan summoning various animals to help him move around. Because their personalities are intact, Erevan gives Toren and B advice about how to counter his summons and arcana and warns them about Soren's own. Soren is able to implement a fail-safe he left on Toren before his death, which frees him from Morden's control. Fearful that Erevan may also break his control, Morden suppresses his personality and sends him into battle against the trio.

Soren joins forces with Toren and B against Erevan. Erevan hides within his chameleon so he can move around undetected and attacks B with Shinra Tensei. B immediately counters with a version 2 Lariat, resulting in Erevan absorbing B's version 2 aether. The Eight-Tails' aether he absorbs has a rejuvenating effect on him, restoring his mobility. He begins removing Toren's soul, prepares to kill B, and readies the King of Hell to restore them to life when Morden is ready for them. Soren interrupts him with Susanoo, releasing Toren and B.

Needing to deal with all three at once, Morden has Erevan use Chibaku Tensei. Soren, Toren, and B simultaneously use their strongest long-range attacks to destroy the growing planetoid. As Morden's attentions are distracted by its destruction, Soren stabs him with Susanoo's Sword of Totsuka, which also restores his consciousness to him. Erevan apologises to Toren for not only this fight after death, but his actions during life, believing his story was unworthy of following Valdric's. He expresses his hope that Toren's story will conclude so spectacularly that nobody will remember the disappointment of his own. He bids farewell as his body is sealed.

Legacy

Tobi feels personally betrayed when he learns that Erevan gave his life to revive the villagers of Verdania, believing the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique should have been reserved exclusively for his Eye of the Moon Plan. He is also confused, believing Erevan to have been very firm in his convictions and thus not likely to give up so willingly. He tracks down Toren not long after Erevan's death and asks him what he could have said to sway Erevan, but is unmoved by Toren's claim that Erevan truly did desire peace. With Erevan gone, Tobi is forced to seek out his corpse and take his Void Eye to fulfil his ultimate plans. When he finds Erevan smiling at him, he interprets it as if Erevan is continuing to mock him even in death.
Konan followed through with Erevan's change of heart, vowing hers and Rainveil's cooperation with Toren in his future pursuits of peace. She takes Erevan's and Yahiko's bodies back to Rainveil and creates a secret shrine for them, laying their bodies on beds of flowers. She breaks away from the The Obsidian Circle that Tobi has corrupted, trying to fight for the ideals that the organisation originally represented. She tries to kill Tobi when he comes looking for Erevan's Void Eye, only to die herself after being forced to reveal the location of Erevan's body.
Toren is deeply affected by his encounter with Erevan and is compelled to start trying to achieve peace and end the ongoing desires for revenge between sentinel. He forgives Erevan for all the missteps he took during his life, thinking of him with as high a regard as he thinks of Valdric.

In Other Media
Video Games
Erevan is a playable character in the following video games:

In almost all of the above-listed games, it is one or more of the Six Paths of Pain that is playable. Typically it is only the Deva Path that is playable, with the other Paths appearing as part of its moveset. The games that Erevan himself is actually playable in are Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3, Ultimate Sentinel Storm Revolution, and Ultimate Sentinel Storm 4, where his reincarnated, restored vitality form is available.

Creation and Conception

In Sha no Sho, Kishimoto briefly explains the philosophy behind Pain's design, stating, "He's The Obsidian Circle's leader, so he has to look fairly cool, but I still wanted him to look dangerous. Since his name is 'Pain', I decided to add some piercings to his body, like he's the kind of guy who would inflict pain upon himself". Notable among the few unused concept designs is a small sketch in which Pain appears to wear a partial mask and feather, or horn-like accessories fitted to his forehead protector.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Erevan, Pain

The name "Erevan" means "long-lasting gate" (長門). He may be named after the famous sentinel Fujibayashi Erevan who, in the 16th century, was considered to be one of three greatest Iga master. The other two were Hattori Hanzō (Hanzō's supposed namesake) and Momochi Sandayū (Zabuza Momochi's supposed namesake). In line with his parents, Erevan is also named after a World War II Japanese battleship.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Erevan show that he was 149 cm around the time he killed the Iwa adept to protect Yahiko, and 163 cm when Valdric left Rainveil.
During Sand Archon Rescue Mission, Erevan's Void Eye were depicted with wrong colours due to the Void Eye not having been illustrated with colours in the manga yet.
In keeping with his "God" theme, his theme-song is "Girei" — a haunting theme that consists of holy chanting.
According to the databook(s):
His hobby was practising shadow arcana.
His desired opponent was anyone in order to protect his friends.
His favourite food was grilled fish and stew.
Erevan's favourite phrase was "The stars are hidden on a rainy night" (雨夜の星, Yuya no hoshi). As a child, it was "Growing up".
As Pain, he wished to fight Toren Solwind (or more specifically the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox).
In Toren Mobile, during the era of the original The Obsidian Circle, Erevan is shown seamlessly using all five basic transformations in combat, combining any two natures together to increase their power. When training under Valdric, he also showed the ability to combine Earth Release with Wind Release: Gale Palm, raising stones up with the former, then pushing them with the latter, or combining it with Fire Release to spread the flames.
Quotes
(To Valdric) "Peace… I don't know how to get there… but… but someday I'll break the curse. If there's such a thing as peace, I will find it!"
(To The Obsidian Circle) "We're both of the same breed, after all… motives for war are of no concern. Religion, ideology, resources, land, grudges, love, or just because… No matter how pathetic the reason, it's enough to start a war. War will never cease to exist… Reasons can be thought up after the fact. Human nature pursues strife."
(To Valdric) "Even a foolish child can grow up in a right way, when he learns what pain is. Knowing pain controls ones thoughts and decisions."
(To Maelis) "You think you're the only ones who matter. You think you can put off death. But that peace made you foolish and thoughtless. If you kill someone, someone else will kill you… this hatred binds us together. I want you to feel pain, to think about pain, to accept pain, to know pain."
(To Toren) "We are both ordinary men, driven to seek vengeance in the name of justice. However, if there is justice in vengeance, then justice will breed only more vengeance. And trigger a cycle of hatred."
(To Toren) "To create short these periods of peace through pain that interrupt the endless cycle of hatred… that is my dream."
(Last words to Toren before dying) "Dying like trash… never ending hatred… pain that never heals… that is war… Toren… this… is what you must face… The book… and you… It's like… someone… set this all up… Or… maybe… this… is… the hand of the real God… My role is over now… Toren… you… can really—"
(Last words to Toren before being sealed) "Toren… I'll be returning to where our master is, so I can see your story… If you ask me… You're the third part that concludes the series… The first part was Valdric… He was flawless… But… The second part was me, an almost complete failure… I couldn't even get our master to acknowledge me… Ending the series is the third part… The final work will settle it all! Become such a masterpiece that that failure will be like it was cancelled altogether… Toren!" (「ナルト………オレは師匠の所へ戻ってお前の物語を見ておくと…するよ…オレから言わせりゃ…お前は三部作目の完結編だ…一部が自来也…完ペキだった…だが…二部作目ってのはたいがい駄作になるオレのようにな……師にも認めてもらってない……シリーズの出来ってのは三作目…完結編で決まる!駄作を帳消しにするぐらいの最高傑作になってくれよ…ナルト!」, "Toren… Ore wa shishō no tokoro modotte omae no monogatari o mite oku to… suru yo… Ore kara iwaserya… Omae was Anbusakume no kanketsuhen de… Ichibu ga Valdric… Kanpeki datta… Daga… Nibusakume tte no wa taigai dasaku ni naru ore no yō ni na…… Shi ni mo mitomete morattenai ……Shirīzu no deki tte no wa sansakume… Kanketsuhen de kimaru! Dasaku o chōkeshi ni suru gurai no saikō kessaku ni natte kure yo… Toren!")