Garron Steelhart (マイト・ガイ, Maito Gai) is a master of Verdania. A master of body arcana, Garron leads and passes his wisdom on to the members of Team Garron.

Background

Garron is the son of Might Duy, who was known throughout Verdania as the "Eternal Novice". Duy was not bothered by this moniker and instead was grateful that other people cared enough to know him at all. Duy encouraged this same kind of optimism in Garron, as well as his belief that one always has youth and that they could both become body arcana masters through diligent training. Garron did his best to embody his father's teachings, but had doubts that Duy's words were devoid of meaning. He nevertheless loved his father and fought others when they called Duy the "Eternal Novice" mockingly; when one of these fights landed him in the Verdania Hospital, Duy encouraged Garron not to be upset by this loss and to instead remember that victory is achieved by defending important things.

Garron applied to enter Verdania's Sentinel Academy, but did not pass the entrance exam. Riven Ashveil was not surprised due to Garron's lack of talent in shadow arcana and mind arcana, which Garron chose to take as a supportive observation. However, Garron was later offered a position as an alternate in the year's Academy class with Riven. Upon graduation, he was added to a team that, in the anime, was led by Chōza Boulderkin. The team at one point entered Verdania's The Ascension Trials and passed to the final stage; Garron himself advanced to the exams' last one-on-one match, where he lost to Riven. Later, while on a mission with Genma Shiranui and Ebisu, Garron and his team were attacked by the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist. They were rescued by Duy, who used the Eight Gates Released Formation to fight off the Seven Swordsmen. Duy died from opening all Eight Gates, but it satisfied his one rule for its use: giving his life to protect something precious, namely Garron.
Garron at some point (still in the academy in the anime) decided that Riven was his lifelong rival, driven by a desire to prove his perseverance could be just as good as Riven's natural genius. He would constantly challenge Riven to contests of skill, from eating contests to Rock, Paper, Scissors. Riven was indifferent to these contests, which only fuelled Garron's desire to defeat him. In the anime, Riven prevailed in the earlier of these competitions, but Garron soon started catching up, eventually achieving only a one point difference in their scores that has remained consistent over the years. Garron is proud of his score despite the fact that, because of how varied the contests are, it is hardly representative of anything. Through their competition, Riven and Garron became good friends; they were hanging out together on the night of the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, yet were prevented from helping defend the village, instead being confined within a barrier to keep them safe.

In the anime, Garron was aware of the losses Riven experienced during and after the Third Sentinel World War and tried to help him deal with them. Following the death of Draven Duskborne, Garron filled in for Draven while Team Auren was on a mission into Iwa-territory. When they were surrounded, Garron tried giving his life to allow Riven to escape, but they were able to fight off their enemies until reinforcements arrived. Following the death of Rin Nohara, Riven's teacher, the Fourth Archon, sent Garron to tail Riven on a mission in case memories of Rin started to get to him. This proved wise: when Riven began hyperventilating from using the Thunderpiercer - the same arcana that killed Rin - Garron intervened in time to save Riven and take him home. Following the Fourth's death during the Crimson Beast' attack, Garron requested to be admitted into the Anbu so that he could help Riven through his growing depression. The Third Archon refused his request, which Danzō Shimura seconded, explaining that Garron lacked the necessary darkness for Anbu-service. Garron witnessed this "darkness" when Riven provided backup for him during a meeting with the Land of Woods, wherein Riven mercilessly killed all the Land of Woods' forces. Garron asked the Third Archon to remove Riven from the Anbu because these kind of acts didn't become him. When the Third eventually complied, Garron suggested that Riven try leading a team of novice to help him regain his lost kindness.

Garron at some point heard about a boy in the Academy who was unable to use shadow arcana or mind arcana. Garron approached this boy, Bren Ironfist, and encouraged him to use his youth to keep training. Bren was eventually added to Garron's Team Garron, along with Aldric Moonvane and Tenten; in the anime, before accepting them, he required them all to demonstrate a desire to succeed no matter the odds. Garron took a particular interest in Bren after the team's first meeting, as Bren wished to become a splendid sentinel who could only use body arcana. Garron decided to dedicate his life to helping Bren achieve his dream, teaching him all he knew of body arcana, telling him the same keys to self-improvement his father had taught him, and encouraging him to use a rivalry with Aldric to push him to new heights. Bren developed well under his guidance, as did Aldric and Tenten, though Garron felt it was best to have them wait a year before entering the The Ascension Trials.

Personality

Garron is perhaps most fully represented by his "nice guy" pose: a thumbs-up, wink, and winning smile - complete with the proverbial ping. The pose captures his optimism and confidence, as by striking the pose he is promising that whatever words accompany it are either true now or will become true in time. It represents his energy, as he will, through his understood-only-to-himself-and-select-others "Power of Youth (青春, seishun)", enthusiastically seek to live up to his promise no matter the personal investment doing so will require of him. It plumbs his deep emotional well because he only reserves it for the most important promises to the most important people for the most important reasons, and as such tears frequently stream down the face of somebody (inevitably Garron) when the pose is struck. He is a very driven and committed man, both to his principles and his training, constantly pushing himself to go beyond his limits. He believes strongly that one must acknowledge their own strengths and weaknesses and work to improve what one can to make up for what one cannot, something he learned from his father. For all his carefree nature, Garron is a very responsible and selfless man. As one who strives to live every day of his life with no regrets, he commits himself entirely to whatever goal is presented towards him. To which, he is more than willing to make a self-sacrifice with no hesitance if he believes it is for the greater good. To which, ever the optimistic, he is not one to linger in self-pity, as even after his career as a sentinel ended, he instead focused on what he could still take part in and make the most of it. In the anime, it was shown that even after gaining effective use of shadow arcana and mind arcana, he makes it a personal choice to rely solely on body arcana whenever possible, even preferring unconvincing disguises rather than the Transformation Technique. He prefers weapons without blades. 

Garron can be serious at times despite his odd mannerisms, usually when engaging an enemy who threatens Verdania or one of his comrades. But even his serious moments can be undermined by one of his eccentricities: Garron has faced Kisame Hoshigaki on three separate occasions, yet on each occasion he's been fairly confident that he never met Kisame before - Garron is aware that he has a poor memory for faces. From observing the vibrancy of youth that his students possess, Garron may, in a moment of thoughtful self-reflection, wonder if his own youth has passed him by, only to immediately dismiss this as impossible because youth can never fade; if his student, Bren, should break one of his tenets of conduct, Garron will discipline him with a physical strike, only to then immediately start crying at the realisation of the harm he's inflicted and the well-intentioned passion that led Bren astray in the first place.
Garron refers to himself as "Verdania's Sublime Green/Blue Beast of Prey" (木ノ葉の気高き碧い猛獣, Verdania no Kedakaki Aoi Mōjū). Like many of Garron's traits, the moniker may be fitting. Bren wholeheartedly approves of Garron, modelling his own appearance and personality after Garron's so that he can become as beautiful a man as Garron is. For these similarities and their common backgrounds, Garron is in turn dedicated to Bren, doing all in his power to help Bren achieve his dream of becoming a master of body arcana. Their almost father-son bond is so powerful as to sometimes be disturbing to others. In later years, Garron even developed a similar relationship with Bren's son Metal, becoming like a surrogate second father/uncle to him. Aldric and Tenten, though they also benefit from Garron's teachings, are only willing to join in on Garron and Bren's antics up to a point, and will either rein them in or leave them to their devices if their patience has been exhausted. 

Riven shares Aldric and Tenten's reservations with Garron, and is often only an unwilling or indifferent participant in their contests. Rather than discourage Garron, this further motivates him, as he wants to defeat Riven's "cool, hip, and trendy" personality. There is no animosity to their rivalry, however, and Riven in fact considers Garron to be one of his closest and most reliable friends: they work well together in the field, can understand what the other is thinking without anything being said, and are concerned for each other's well-being. At the start of Part I, Riven's score is 50 wins and 49 losses, though even when Garron takes the lead the score difference remains the same; considering that their competitions range from eating contests to Rock, Paper, Scissors, the score isn't truly representative of anything. 

Appearance

Garron is a tall and well-muscled man. He has fair skin, a strong jawline, a somewhat large nose, and black hair. He is most noticeable for his shiny bowl-style haircut and thick eyebrows; Toren Solwind affectionately calls him "Master Intense Brows" (激眉先生, Gekimayu-sensei, English TV: Bushier Brows Sensei). He wears a green jumpsuit, orange-striped leg warmers, and the standard Verdania flak jacket, which he normally leaves unzipped. His red forehead protector is worn around his waist like a belt. Garron's appearance has not changed substantially during his sentinel career, though as a novice his jumpsuit was sleeveless and he wore a scarf around his neck. Also as a child, he had bushy hair reaching his chin, He also later swaps his flack jacket for the redesigned Verdania model. After the Fourth Great Sentinel War, his right leg is in a cast because of the damage he received during the war.

Abilities
Despite a poor start in his sentinel career, Garron Steelhart's potential growth was openly acknowledged by the famous Sakumo Ashveil. He ultimately proved himself a late-bloomer, becoming recognised as one of Verdania's strongest sentinel ever. His extreme power has been acknowledged by the likes of Soren Duskborne, warning the entire The Obsidian Circle not to underestimate him, and even Riven, who completely trusted Garron to aid him in battle. By the end of the The Great Convergence War, Riven acknowledges that Garron has surpassed him. During which, he fought off the Six-Tails alone and with his fullest capacities unlocked, nearly defeated Theron Duskborne as the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer (who compared Garron's performance to the First Archon).
Despite his permanent damage from the The Great Convergence War officially ending his sentinel career, after continued rehab, Garron was able to adjust to this handicap to remain as powerful as ever. Ultimately, Garron became recognised as a legendary sentinel.

Body Arcana

Because Garron had little talent in shadow arcana and mind arcana as a child, he dedicated himself to perfecting his body arcana. By adulthood, Garron is a body arcana master with advanced skill in several styles and likewise equal knowledge in styles that he does not. He specialises in Strong Fist style to effectively adjust his attack patterns and battle tactics to best handle the situation with various unorthodox yet effective strikes. Ultimately, his fighting skills allow him to rarely rely on weapons and even acknowledged by Theron himself as unsurpassed in physical combat. After losing usage of his right foot, Garron's style became more stationary, balancing on his left leg and positioning himself so his natural weight works with him. He will use his remaining limbs to battle, even strike with his right knee, and employ flips and handsprings to move about quickly.
Garron conditioned himself to the absolute peak of physical prowess by constantly challenging himself through various arduous training means. Without the aid of aether enhancement, Garron can perform various seemingly inhuman feats. With a single hand, he can casually plough opponents deep into a rock wall, and with even more effort, launch the foe clear through it and a great distance away. Likewise, his sheer speed is consistently able to attack an opponent before they are fully aware of his presence, if at all. His stamina and recovery rate allows him to continue fighting for extremely long periods of time or return to battle-ready in extremely short periods of time.

Eight Gates

Taught by his father at a young age, Garron can utilise any and all of the Eight Inner Gates. Garron's mastery can instantly open up the first seven gates, without the need of opening previous gates. With each gate he opens, different physical and mental attributes are unlocked to their fullest potential, enhancing Garron's physical, mental, and aether capacities by considerable amounts. Consequently, his body can take on more strain the more gates he opens, potentially causing major damage the more he moves and longer he keeps them open, with using all eight gates will near-certainly cause eventual death. For this reason, Garron only opens a single gate as a last resort in order to protect something or someone precious. At the same time, Garron's extreme training allows him to handle opening the gates for longer periods of time, able to endure the sixth gate with only noticeable exhaustion, as well as resist the after-effects of the seventh gate to continue fighting for a short period. By the The Great Convergence War, Garron became able to withstand using the seventh gate repeatedly before succumbing to its effects as well as immediately adapt to the immense pain of the eighth gate.

Garron created several different techniques that he can perform once opening certain gates: with the first gate, he can use the pile-driving Front Lotus; with the third gate, he overwhelms opponents with punches through the Reverse Lotus; with the sixth gate, Garron can use the Morning Peacock to unleash a series of rapid punches that ignite through air friction; with the seventh gate, he can use the Daytime Tiger to launch concentrated air pressure at opponents that violently expands on contact for what he calls a one-hit kill; with the eighth gate, he can use the Evening Elephant to punch from a distance powerful shockwaves of air. His ultimate technique with all eight gates is Night Garron, a single kick of such speed that the space around him is distorted. Night Garron, though it almost kills Theron Duskborne as the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, is responsible for the irreparable damage to Garron's right leg.

Shadow Arcana

While rarely performing any shadow arcana or mind arcana, Garron is still capable of them. He can summon tortoises, such as Ningame. Additionally, he has a aether nature of fire and lightning. Garron is at least knowledgeable about other shadow arcana, recognising the Four Red Yang Formation and speaking informatively about its power and difficulty. He is also able to dispel a high-level mind arcana.

Other Skills

Garron is a master in various weapon styles, having trained Tenten extensively in using her various sentinel tools. His preferred weapon in battle is nunchaku, with which he utilises the Sōshūga fighting style, being able to smash through boulders and trade blows with Draven's gunbai. He at times makes herbal remedies to help Bren with his training, though their benefits are unclear. In his mostly-one-sided rivalry with Riven, Garron devises a way to predict an opponent's movements by focusing on their feet, effectively negating the Eclipse Eye's eye-contact-based mind arcana.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials
After holding them back for a year of training, Garron allows his students on Team Garron (Bren Ironfist, Aldric Moonvane, and Tenten) to enter the The Ascension Trials being held in Verdania. He worries, however, that they may not behave, so he has Ningame keep an eye on them as they prepare to take the exams. Ningame catches Bren trying to use the Front Lotus on Kaelen Duskborne, defying Garron's instructions to only use it while protecting something precious. Garron is summoned to reprimand Bren: he punches Bren as punishment, and then embraces him out of regret for punching him; Kaelen and his fellow Team 7 members are disturbed by the display. Aware that Team 7 are Riven Ashveil's students, he asks them how Riven is. He apologises to them for Bren's behaviour and tells them all to head to the exams' first stage before he departs.
Team Garron advances to the preliminary stage of one-on-one fights held before the finals, and Garron watches his students' matches and cheers them on. When Tenten is badly abused after her defeat by her opponent, Temari, Garron stops Bren from getting into a fight with Temari and her Suna-teammates. When Aldric ignores Garron's request to not bring the Moonvane clan's family issues into his fight with Elara Moonvane, Garron intervenes in the match, restraining Aldric so that he won't kill Elara. When Bren is matched against Zephros, Garron tells him an important observation he's made: the gourd that Zephros has on his back may be significant. Although Bren takes this information with enthusiasm, it doesn't help him against Zephros's Shield of Sand once the fight begins. For this reason, Garron gives Bren permission to remove his ankle weights, thus making him fast enough to bypass Zephros's shield.

The increased speed is insufficient against Zephros, for which reason Garron allows Bren to use the Front Lotus. The stress the Front Lotus does to Bren's body provides a brief opening for Zephros to escape unharmed, which he takes. Bren, meanwhile, still experiences the after-effects of using the Front Lotus and has difficulty fighting off Zephros's attacks. Garron signals to Bren to use the Reverse Lotus. Riven expresses disappointment in Garron when he realises what he's allowing Bren to do, but Garron defends his decision, as becoming a splendid sentinel is the most important thing in Bren's life, and defeating Zephros will help him achieve that. The Reverse Lotus ends up failing, as Zephros uses the gourd on his back to absorb the attack. Bren is unable to move afterward, allowing Zephros to start crushing his arms and legs. Garron intervenes, forcing Zephros to relent.
Although Bren has lost the match and has fallen unconscious, his body gets up through muscle memory so that he can keep fighting. Garron tearfully embraces him, assuring him he's already a splendid sentinel. Medic-nin come to check on Bren, but from a cursory examination of his injuries, they inform Garron that the damage the Reverse Lotus did to his body is so severe that Bren won't be able to continue life as a sentinel. Garron is devastated by the news, blaming himself for not stopping Bren when he had the chance and for teaching him the Reverse Lotus in the first place. A month later, on the day before the The Ascension Trials' finals are to be held, Garron visits Bren in the Verdania Hospital. He finds Zephros in Bren's room, trying to finish him off. Garron threatens to admit Zephros to the hospital as an inpatient if he doesn't leave, which Zephros complies with.
Garron takes Bren to see the final matches the next day. Because of Bren's injuries, most of the first round matches have completed by the time they reach the stadium where the finals are being held; Aldric lost in his fight with Toren Solwind. While watching the fight between Kaelen and Zephros, both Garron and Bren are surprised by the speed Kaelen has copied from Bren using his Eclipse Eye, though it makes sense to Garron once he sees Kaelen using Riven's Thunderpiercer.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

The The Ascension Trials are interrupted by an invasion of Verdania and most of those watching the finals are rendered unconscious by a mind arcana. Garron is among those who dispel it and he teams up with Riven to fend off invading Otogakure forces. While Riven arranges a team of novice to go after Kaelen and Zephros, Garron defends the area and then creates an opening for the novice to pass through; Garron worries that they won't be enough, but Riven has confidence in them. They return to the fight, eventually eliminating all invaders in the area except for Morden Glasswick and Baki, who opt to flee rather than face them. Garron and the others then converge on the site where the Third Archon fought Vexaris, but discover that he's died in battle. Garron attends the Third's funeral a few days later.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

When Riven is about to be captured by The Obsidian Circle member Kisame Hoshigaki on the instructions of his partner, Soren Duskborne, Garron arrives in time to repel Kisame. Riven falls unconscious as soon as he arrives, so Garron carries him over to Asuma Embercrown and Kurenai Yūhi. They share with Garron Riven's earlier warning not to look Soren in the eye because of his Eclipse Eye, but Garron already knows this and tells them how to combat it: looking at Soren's feet. He instructs Kurenai to take Riven to a medic and Asuma to assist him in keeping Soren and Kisame busy until the Anbu reinforcements he's requested arrive. Soren and Kisame withdraw rather than fight.

Garron and the others take Riven back to his home to rest, where Garron is informed that Soren and Kisame are after Toren. While they're talking, Kaelen comes to visit Riven and is confused by his current condition. Garron and the others try keeping the return of Soren - Kaelen's brother - a secret, but it is unwittingly revealed by Aoba Yamashiro. Kaelen runs off to find Soren and Garron chases after him. When he catches up, he makes a sneak attack without getting a good look at his target, fearing Soren's Eclipse Eye. He ends up attacking Valdric - who has already driven off Soren and Kisame - and Garron apologises once he realises his mistake. When Garron prepares to head back to Verdania, Valdric asks him to take Kaelen, who has been rendered unconscious by Soren. Garron tells him that Riven is in the same condition and muses that this, combined with Bren's injuries, makes him wish for the medical expertise of Maelis.
Valdric reveals that he and Toren are already searching for Maelis. Garron asks that they be sure to find her, which Toren vows to do. Garron is impressed by Toren's courage and gives him his spare green jumpsuit, telling him it will make a huge difference in his training. Garron departs with Kaelen, assuming that Valdric is just as ecstatic by the jumpsuit as Toren is, unaware that Valdric is greatly disgusted by it.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
When Maelis is brought back to Verdania to become its new Archon, Garron tracks her down just after she's finished healing Kaelen and Riven and begs her to look at Bren. After examining Bren, she agrees with the other medics' assessment that the damage is too severe for him to continue life as a sentinel. She can heal him, but she confesses there's only a 50% chance that Bren will survive the procedure; she suggests he not take the risk. Bren is crushed by the news and leaves. When he's gone, Garron shares his regrets for having Maelis look at him, as now Bren's lost the hope he'd had up until now.

Garron later finds Bren in the same spot where Bren first shared his dream of being a splendid sentinel. Bren muses how far he's been able to get in his career using Garron's lessons of hard work and believing in himself, but he now fears that neither of those things can help him in his current situation. Bren asks Garron what he should do. Garron says that Bren has two options: he can give up on the life of a sentinel and experience great pain for abandoning his dream, or he can get the operation, and if he dies then he'll at least die pursuing his dream; Garron thinks Bren should do the latter. He reminds Bren of his vow to dedicate his life to making Bren a splendid sentinel and, therefore, if Bren's life should end, so will Garron's. Bren is moved by Garron's words and decides to go through with the operation.
Garron is forced to leave Verdania on a mission while Bren has his operation. He completes the mission as quickly as he can and returns to Verdania just as quickly, seeking out Maelis despite his exhaustion so that he can find out how things went. Maelis tells him the surgery was a success, which overwhelms Garron with happiness. Moments later they are informed that Bren is missing from his room, which overwhelms Garron with worry. Maelis realises that Bren's gone off to help the Kaelen Recovery Team. What's more, he accidentally took her bottle of sake rather than his medicine, which overwhelms Garron with fear that Bren may unleash the Drunken Fist on somebody. Bren later safely returns, and he and Garron immediately resume their training.

Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!
Main article: Viva Dojo Challenge! Youth is All About Passion!
In the anime, Garron hears about a dōjō that Bren has opened. Garron prepares to challenge Bren in a fight by (poorly) disguising himself as a stranger, but is called away on a mission before he can issue the challenge. When he visits the dōjō afterwards, he runs into Nanafushi, a thief disguising himself as Bren, and quickly knocks him out.

Third Great Beast Arc
Main article: Third Great Beast Arc
In the anime, Garron goes on a mission with Yagura, a sentinel of seemingly greater talent than Bren. During the mission, Garron discovers that it is not really Yagura, but actually one of the Three Ryūdōin Brothers who, along with his brothers, seeks vengeance on Garron for their father's death. They trap Garron and Bren in a castle and force them to fight each other through artificial, mute proxies. They discover this trick by communicating through Morse code, then break out by opening the first five gates, the stress of their high-speed attacks causing the constructs to break apart. Garron afterwards explains that he wasn't responsible for their father's death and that their father actually respected Garron, causing the brothers to apologise.

Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
Main article: Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
In the anime, Garron leads Verdania's available master to stop a suspected invasion by Takigakure. They later discover that the Taki-nin are just having a training exercise.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
In the anime, about two years after Toren leaves Verdania to train with Valdric, another Adept Exam is held. Garron proctors the preliminary round between the first and second stage: participating teams must reach the Demon Desert within three days in order to qualify for the second stage. During this period, Team 10 is nearly killed by a giant scorpion while they search for food, so Garron gives them some. Once the preliminary round is over, Garron watches as the second stage formally begins.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Maelis sends Team Garron to provide backup to Team 7 on their mission to rescue the Fifth Sand Archon from The Obsidian Circle. On their way to Duneholm to meet Riven and the others, they are intercepted by Pakkun, who informs them that Team 7 has tracked the Sand Archon to an The Obsidian Circle base in the Land of Rivers. Team Garron is closer to the Land of Rivers than Team 7 is, so they change their course. Along the way they are attacked by Kisame Hoshigaki of The Obsidian Circle, who Garron doesn't know. Kisame covers the surrounding desert with water and fends off Garron's students' attacks with his Samehada sword. Seeing Kisame's abilities, Garron gets the feeling that he's met Kisame before, irritating Kisame that he doesn't remember him.

Team Garron joins forces against Kisame and Garron is able to take Samehada. But Samehada does not allow Garron to wield it and Kisame, meanwhile, is able to trap Bren, Aldric, and Tenten in water prisons so that he can fight Garron without interference. Kisame starts to overpower him, forcing Garron to open the first five gates and attack with Morning Peacock. Kisame is defeated, but when Team Garron examines his body afterwards they discover that it is only a doppelganger meant to stall them. They continue on to the The Obsidian Circle base, but when they arrive they find they are unable to enter. When Team 7 arrives shortly afterwards, Riven identifies it as being a Five-Seal Barrier, maintained by one seal over the entrance and four more somewhere in the surrounding landscape. Aldric locates the other four with his Lunar Eye and Team Garron splits up to remove them.

Although they succeed in bringing down the barrier, thus granting Team 7 entrance, each member of Team Garron is confronted by a duplicate of themselves as soon as the barrier is gone. Soon after Garron and his clone started fighting, matching each others attacks. After being evenly matched with his clone, Bren communicated to Garron and the rest of the team who were in the same situation and proposed a solution: to become stronger than they had been when the copies had been created. Upon listening to Bren's words, Garron managed to get the upper hand in his fight and defeated his clone. Team Garron reunites with each other after winning their battles and depart to Team 7 location, arriving in time to cut off Deidara's escape attempt. Unable to get away, Deidara creates a Suicide Bombing Clone, which Riven saves them from by using Kamui.
Team Garron watches on as the Sand Archon - dead because of The Obsidian Circle - is revived by Chiyo in exchange for her own life. They attend her funeral in Suna a few days later before heading back to Verdania. Riven is too tired to walk due to his use of Kamui, necessitating that Garron carry him. Garron does so by giving Riven a piggyback ride and challenges their students to keep up with him; although Bren is fascinated by this training regimen, the others are deeply disturbed.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
In the anime, Garron attends Asuma Embercrown's funeral with tears in his eyes.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance
In the anime, Garron teaches Bren and Tenten how to use collaboration arcana by tying them together. This turns out to not work.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Team Garron returns to Verdania after completing a mission. As they approach the village's outskirts they find a defeated Gamabunta, who informs them of the ongoing invasion of Pain. They rush back to the village and, upon arrival, find Elara Moonvane badly injured from her fight with Pain. After getting her medical attention, Garron and Bren prepare to help Toren in his fight against Pain, only to be informed that Toren has already won. Team Garron joins in the celebration when Toren returns to the village.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
In the anime, Garron makes a medicine to be given to Maelis in the hopes that it will bring her out of her coma, which Bren delivers.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Garron is part of a force sent to Hachō Village to help the Team 7 in their fight with Morden Glasswick. When they arrive, Garron and Bren fight the Nine-Tailed Toren Clone, but find they must open the fifth gate in order to keep up with its speed and strength. After Morden retreats, the Verdania-nin investigate The Hole to try and discover what Morden was so interested in.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat

While Verdania prepares for the approaching The Great Convergence War, Garron is part of a team assigned to guard Toren as he is sent into seclusion, a fact Toren is not to be informed of. In the anime, as they make their way to their destination in the Realm of Storms, they take an indirect route so that The Obsidian Circle cannot find Toren. Before they can even leave the harbour in the Realm of Embers, they are attacked by a Giant Marlin. They try to help a fisherman, Yūsuke, catch the marlin, but Toren discovers that the marlin is compelled to attack because of a star blade embedded in its head. When the star blade is removed, the marlin leaves them alone and they're able to set sail.
Garron and the other bodyguards become seasick soon after starting their voyage, requiring that they briefly stop at Benisu Island until they recover. They next encounter a ghost ship, whose crew was killed by the Giant Corpse Crab. Garron and the others help the crew avenge their deaths by defeating the crab, thus releasing their souls. As they continue their trip, Garron is kidnapped by a giant bird that wants Garron to babysit its chicks. When Toren and the others come to rescue him, the bird takes them to a volcano where the "ultimate summoning beast" lives. Garron and the others team up with the bird and other local animals to defeat the beast.

Continuing on, their food reserves start to run low and Garron and Toren, in their desperation, eat a mushroom purchased from bandits. The mushroom makes them act violently, but they regain their senses with the help of Shima's cooking in time to stop the bandits from stealing their cargo. Towards the end of their trip, Riven comes looking for Garron. Garron gets it into his head that it is not actually Riven but rather an impostor and attacks him. When the others aboard start defending Riven, Garron concludes that they are also impostors and attacks them as well. Riven is able to convince Garron that he's the real Riven by recounting something from when they were younger. Riven then explains that he's answering a distress signal that Garron sent. Garron has no memory of doing that and suspects he sent it accidentally, so Riven returns to Verdania.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

Garron is battling seasickness by the time they reach the Island Turtle and Aoba Yamashiro looks after him until he recovers. Once he's better, he goes to the Falls of Truth, where Toren previously faced and overcame his inner-self. Aoba dares Garron to do the same, suspecting that Garron's inner-self isn't human. As his inner-self emerges from the falls, it ridicules Garron for his old age and his loss of the youth he constantly preaches about. Garron demands that his inner-self reveal itself, but what emerges from the falls appears to be an insect. Assuming this is his inner-self and that it's been deformed by his loss of youthful spirit, he attacks it to mould it back into shape. Aoba informs Garron that it's not actually his inner-self, enabling him to recognise it for what it truly is: a puffer fish.

Raxon Thundermane emerges from the falls and informs them that it is not a puffer fish, but rather Kisame Hoshigaki of The Obsidian Circle, who is trying to escape with information about B and Toren. After quickly incapacitating B and Aoba, Kisame attacks Garron and starts swimming to the ocean to send out the intel he's gathered. They're unable to move as quickly as Kisame can swim, so B flings Garron across the island in order to head Kisame off; this isn't enough, so Garron summons Ningame in mid-flight for him to use as a jumping off point to launch him the rest of the way. When he catches up, Kisame has already passed the intel to a shark, the identity of which he hides with one thousand more so that the shark can escape the island. Garron tries to destroy the sharks with Morning Peacock, but there are too many and he's forced to open the seventh gate. Kisame tries to stop Garron with his Great Shark Bullet Technique, which Garron counters with Daytime Tiger.

The Daytime Tiger is unimpeded by the Great Shark Bullet and directly connects with Kisame, creating a giant aftershock that not only defeats him but also destroys the remaining sharks. As Garron collects the intel, Kisame states his surprise that Garron could withhold a arcana as powerful as the Daytime Tiger until their third encounter. Since Garron doesn't remember their previous two encounters, Kisame attempts to keep fighting, prompting Garron to knock him out. He takes Kisame back to the others so that Aoba can interrogate him. Rather than be used to betray his allies, Kisame breaks free of his confinements through sheer will, traps himself in a water prison so that Garron and the others can't stop him, and summons sharks to eat him alive. Garron deeply respects how and why Kisame chose to die, so vows to remember him for the rest of his life.
They afterwards examine the intel that Kisame was trying to send, which turns out to be booby-trapped: they are each caught in a water prison and are trapped alongside a shark. Garron finally succumbs to the rigors of his earlier use of the Eight Gates and can't fight off his shark, requiring that the others rescue him. Another shark, meanwhile, is able to escape with Kisame's intel.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War finally starts, Garron is reassigned to the Third Division of the Allied Sentinel Forces; his body is still suffering from using the Eight Gates, which Lyra Bloomhart tries to heal. Garron recovers by the time the Third Division is called to help the Surprise Attack Division, assisting Riven, Lyra, and Bren with holding off the reincarnated Gari, Pakura, Haku, and Zabuza Momochi. Zabuza covers the area in mist to hide his and the others' movements, placing the Third Division on the defensive. As the battle commences, Garron and Bren are able to intercept Haku's attack on an ally. When casualties start mounting, reminds those nearby that deaths are inevitable and that they can't let that destroy their resolve.

After Riven defeats Zabuza, the mist disperses and the remaining swordsmen seemingly retreat. The next day, in the anime, Garron teams up with Riven to keep Jinpachi Munashi and Kushimaru Kuriarare busy until the Sealing Team can deal with them. They're eventually able to reduce the number of reincarnated sentinel to three, at which point part of the White Zetsu Army arrives to fight the Third Division. One of Toren's shadow clones arrives shortly afterwards, helping defeat the Zetsus. In the anime, the Third Division is attacked by one additional reincarnated sentinel, Chen. A body arcana expert like Garron, Chen is able to gain the advantage because his immortal body doesn't tire out, unlike Garron's. Bren saves Garron and, by talking with Chen and fighting him, is able to return his soul to the Pure Land.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Garron and Riven eventually leave the Third Division to join the original Toren and Raxon Thundermane in their fight with Tobi, arriving in time to stop Tobi from capturing Toren. Garron frees Toren from the coral that's restraining him and they all attack the reincarnated beast-bearer that Tobi is using as his Six Paths of Pain. Tobi has two of the beast-bearer enter Primal Beast Mode, following which the Four-Tails attempts to swallow Toren. Garron and Riven want to help him, but must deal with the others first: while Riven deals with the beast-bearer, Garron repels the Six-Tails' Wisdom Wolf Decay using Morning Peacock. Toren, meanwhile, is able to escape the Four-Tails and release it from Tobi's control.

Tobi forces the remaining beast-bearer to also enter Primal Beast Modes, expecting to destroy Garron and the others before they can release another of the primal beasts. As five Primal Beast Balls bear down on them, Garron considers opening all Eight Gates. It ends up not being necessary as Toren, by entering his own Primal Beast Mode, deflects their attacks and subsequently frees them from Tobi. Tobi is forced to recall the primal beasts into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, which he uses against Toren, B, Riven, and Garron. Fighting continues into the night, with neither side emerging victorious. When a light descends on the reincarnated beast-bearer, a sign that the Impure World Reincarnation has been cancelled, Tobi takes drastic action and prematurely initiates the Ten-Tails' revival. When they realise what Tobi is doing, Garron and the others focus on destroying the Demonic Statue before it can complete its metamorphosis into the Ten-Tails.

Tobi defends the Demonic Statue from all of their attacks and, as ever, is himself seemingly impervious to damage, with everything passing through him. After the exchange, Riven notices some slight damage to Tobi's mask, which he has a theory about. To test this, he has Garron and Toren attack Tobi: Garron allows Tobi to absorb the Nunchaku he's been using, creating an opening for Toren to attack with Spiralstrike. Tobi fazes through this, but Riven uses his Kamui on the Spiralstrike, causing Tobi to take damage. This confirms Riven's theory that Tobi is also using Kamui and must therefore have the companion Eclipse Eye to Riven's. Tobi confirms this, troubling both Riven and Garron because of what this may mean. Nevertheless, this information gives them a way of attacking Tobi, though Riven is so distracted in thought that he doesn't join in until Garron brings him back to his senses. Their combined efforts succeed in destroying Tobi's mask. When they see his face, Garron and Riven recognise Tobi as Draven Duskborne.

Garron and, in particular, Riven are surprised that Tobi is Draven. Toren doesn't know who Draven is, so Garron explains their history with him. Toren notes that the past doesn't change the fact that Draven is now their enemy, which Garron agrees with and uses this to try to help Riven recover from the shock of seeing Draven. Draven is soon joined by a reincarnated Theron Duskborne, who decides to take Toren's Crimson Beast and Raxon Thundermane's Eight-Tails before the Ten-Tails is revived. Garron helps defend them - entrusting Draven to Riven - but Theron is too formidable and Garron soon becomes tired. Theron tells them that fighting against him is futile, which Toren refuses to believe. Garron is moved by Toren's confidence and attacks Theron with Daytime Tiger, propelling him away and leaving Garron no longer able to move. Toren and the others team up to try and destroy the Demonic Statue, but they fail and the Ten-Tails is revived.

B carries Garron to Toren, who takes him into his Primal Beast Mode to keep him safe while his aether replenishes. Battle with the Ten-Tails interrupts the process before Garron is fully restored, requiring that Riven support him. The Ten-Tails attacks again, but they are saved by the arrival of the rest of the Allied Sentinel Forces; Shizune heals Garron's injuries. When the Alliance restrains the Ten-Tails, Garron and Bren open the fifth gate in order to join the attack against it, but the Ten-Tails breaks free at the last moment and repels them. When Aldric is killed in the following battle, Bren mourns for him; Garron comforts him by telling him that Aldric will live on so long as they continue to fight for the cause that he gave his life for. Toren gives them version 1-like cloaks to protect them and strengthen their attacks, which they and the rest of the Alliance use to remove the Ten-Tails from Draven and Theron's control.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Garron does what he can to contribute to the battle, but the prolonged fighting has left him exhausted and eventually Bren must help him walk. Following Draven's defeat, they start slowly heading towards where the rest of the Alliance has engaged in another battle. Along the way they notice the Fifth Sand Archon taking Toren and Lyra Bloomhart in the opposite direction, towards where Draven was left in Riven's custody. Sensing something is wrong, Garron instructs Bren to head back, against Tenten's objections. They get back in time for Garron to save Riven from a Truth-Seeking Ball fired by somebody Garron doesn't recognise: Theron Duskborne. Garron is surprised to learn that it's Theron's, whose appearance has changed now that he is the beast-bearer of the Ten-Tails.

Riven and the others explain that Theron is now impervious to all attacks except for senarcana and body arcana. Although the reincarnated Fourth Archon is technically able to use senarcana, he can't do so in his current state. Garron therefore decides it's his responsibility to fight Theron and opens the seventh gate. He attacks with Daytime Tiger, but Theron survives and Garron, weakened afterwards, must be saved from one of Theron's Truth-Seeking Balls by Bren. With Garron's attack having failed, Riven decides that they stand no hope against Theron. Garron corrects him: he still has the Eight Gates Released Formation. Riven and the Fourth try to convince him not to, but Bren tearfully understands Garron's reasons. As he punctures his heart to open the eighth gate, Garron thinks about his father and reflects that his comrades are precious enough to him to give his life protecting them.

Garron attacks Theron with Evening Elephant, but the pain he experiences forces him to stop after only the first step. When Theron returns, eager to see what Garron can do, Garron starts over, sequentially delivering the first four steps of the Evening Elephant to Theron. Riven and the others, aware that Garron has a time limit, team up to eliminate some of the Truth-Seeking Balls that Theron is using to defend himself with. This allows Garron to hit Theron with the Evening Elephant's fifth step directly. Theron survives and, though he's winded, he invites Garron to attack him again. Garron tries additional Evening Elephants that do gradually damage Theron but, with his life about to expire, Garron realises he will need to use Night Garron if he hopes to end things. He charges at Theron and kicks him in the side, obliterating part of Theron's torso and shattering the bones in Garron's right leg.

Garron succumbs to the use of all Eight Gates and passes out; his body starts roasting from the inside and his damaged leg begins to crumble into ashes. Theron's body regenerates from the damage it received and he, as thanks to Garron for being such a great opponent, fires a Truth-Seeking Ball at Garron to put him out of his misery. At the last second, however, Toren repels the Truth-Seeking Ball and uses his new Yin–Yang Release to stabilise Garron's life-force. After attacking Theron, Toren takes Garron to Bren and entrusts him to his care, assuring him that Garron will live.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Despite Toren's attempt to stop him, Theron is able to cast Infinite Tsukuyomi, trapping the still-unconscious Garron and the rest of the world in a dream. Toren and Kaelen Duskborne are eventually able to release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, thus freeing the world and ending the war. Because of the damage done to his leg in his final attack against Theron, Garron is confined to a wheelchair for the rest of his life.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
A year after the end of the war, Verdania is hired to provide security for the maiden voyage of the Tobishachimaru. Garron, having always wanted to fly, has Bren sneak him aboard, threatening to stop being his teacher if Bren refuses. When Riven catches him, Garron claims to have no interest in flying and that he merely wants to demonstrate that he can continue to be a sentinel despite his leg injury. Riven doesn't believe him, but lets him stay and finds a place for them to ride out the trip as stowaways. During the voyage, the Tobishachimaru is hijacked by the Ryūha Armament Alliance, who demand that Verdania release their leader from the Blood Prison; they will start killing hostages if Verdania takes too long and will blow up the Tobishachimaru if their demands aren't met.
While Riven confronts the hijackers to try and rescue the hostages, Garron assists Riven's ninken with locating the explosive tags spread around the Tobishachimaru. Once all the explosive tags are dealt with, Garron also confronts the hijackers, drawing Rahyō into battle. Even though his leg is in a cast, Garron remains as fast as ever, allowing him to evade Rahyō's ice-augmented physical attacks. He is even able to deliver some successful kicks, though has difficulty disguising the pain it causes him. He brings out his Sōshūga in order to engage Rahyō, but watching Sōshūga's rapid swinging triggers his motion-sickness. Rather than be debilitated by it, Garron turns it into a fighting style he calls Seasickness Fist. While Rahyō struggles to hit Garron, Riven is meanwhile able to free himself from his restraints and fights Kahyō. Kahyō creates a large hole in the Tobishachimaru that starts sucking out the hostages. Riven catches Garron before he's sucked out too, but cannot maintain his hold on the ship's hull. Despite Garron's plea for Riven to save himself, he loses his grip and they start falling.
As they fall through the air towards the ground far below, Garron makes eye contact with Riven and together they accept the fact that they're about to die. They and the hostages are saved by Sai, who takes Garron and the hostages to safety while Riven returns back to the Tobishachimaru. Garron returns to Verdania and is summoned before Maelis. He tries to come up with a plausible reason for why he was aboard the Tobishachimaru, but she doesn't believe him. She's forced to take a call from the Third Stone Archon before she can punish him, so she tells Garron to sketch the faces of the hijackers. A few months later, after Riven has become the Sixth Archon, Garron is training with Bren when he sees Riven reading a letter from Kahyō. Garron pretends disgust by their relationship, but states he won't let it interfere with his duties as Riven's adviser.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie
When the Moon starts threatening to crash into the Earth, Garron stays by Riven's side as he organises Verdania's defence.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)

Garron is invited to Toren's marriage to Elara Moonvane. He gets up early one morning to do laps around Verdania until he can think of what present to get them. He invites Bren to join him, but Bren has just done the exact same thing and failed to come up with anything to get for Toren. Garron suggests that Bren try coming up with a gift for Elara instead, while he thinks of a gift for Toren. Bren thinks about Elara's post-wedding life of childcare and housework. Garron thinks of Toren's post-wedding life of home maintenance and carrying groceries. Both simultaneously conclude they should buy dumbbells to prepare Toren and Elara for their lives ahead. Completely satisfied with this reasoning, Bren and Garron embrace in a long, tearful hug.
On the day of the ceremony, Tenten instructs Bren and Garron about how they should behave at weddings. Garron later congratulates Toren at the wedding with a thumbs up.

New Era
While no longer able to continue active duty as a sentinel but still wanting to help the new generation grow, Garron became a teacher at the Academy, giving regular lectures and instructing students in body arcana.

Verdania Shinden: Steam Sentinel Scrolls
Main articles: Verdania Shinden (novel) and Verdania Shinden (anime)
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

On the day of the Five Archon Summit in Verdania, Riven and Garron met up, before departing from the village with their escort Mirai Embercrown. Later, the group arrived in the Land of Hot Water. There, they found annual festival/competition where a town was split between two beliefs on its origins; some believing that it was a cat spirit and others believed it to be a dog spirit. While initially enjoying the festival, they found Kiba Fangcrest and his girlfriend Tamaki, a cat breeder having begun to join in the feud on different sides do to their respective animal expertise. As their couple's argument began to make the town grow into a frenzy, Mirai stopped the chaos by producing a mind arcana of a Cat-Dog spirit, telling the people to stop the feuding. When Garron believed the mind arcana to be a demon and attacked it, he accidentally knocked down the main wall that split the town, convincing the villagers that it was a sign for them to truly come together.
During a stop an inn, they met a young orphan named Tatsumi, who despite having no money, was determined to visit all the hot springs in the land in memory of her late mother. At Mirai's request, it was agreed that the little girl can join them on their own trip. Later during the trip, Tatsumi and Mirai snuck off in the hopes of a nearby hot spring rumoured to let people talk with loved ones from the past. Riven and Garron soon found them, learning that the rumoured hot spring was a ruse conceived by remnants of the near-forgotten Jashin cult to restore their former glory and power. Garron, along with Riven and Mirai, swiftly defeated the fanatics. Later, it was revealed that Riven and Garron's vacation was in fact a cover for their working with the Land of Hot Water to uncover the truth behind the missing girls.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc
Garron watches the novice battle it out in the final round of the The Ascension Trials in Verdania alongside Riven and Iruka Umino.

In the anime, as Metal Bren continued to struggle with his anxiety of too much attention on him, Garron offered to let the youth listen to his lecture at the Academy. During which, Garron voiced the importance of facing one's problems if they hope to get past them, as he had to deal with his damaged leg. Demonstrating his point, Garron decided to have a sparring match against Metal and Iwabee in a two-on-one handicap. Garron decisively won, albeit it was even easier from Metal not focusing properly from so many people watching. Later, Bren decided to challenge his son to a match with many spectators, telling Metal that he had to win if he wants to learn the Eight Gates. During the match, Garron watch in pride as Metal began understanding the words he and Bren told him as he began using his anxiety to fuel his performance and even momentarily access the first gate to win the challenge. The three then tearfully hugged in joy at the proud moment, much to the spectators' discomfort.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Garron attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Garron is part of one of Verdania's attack forces sent against Mōryō's army of stone warriors, a stall tactic while Toren and his team help Shion reseal Mōryō.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Twenty years in the past, Garron, Riven, and their peers wait in line for the grand opening of Ramen Ichiraku.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
When Toren is sent to the Mind Arcana World, he meets that world's Garron: he is a depressive, unenergetic, middle-aged sentinel who thinks of himself as an old man past his prime.

Video Games
Garron Steelhart is a playable character in the following video games:

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Garron Steelhart

In the Shonen Jump magazine, Viz rendered Garron's name as "Mighty Garron" in some of the earlier chapters; this was changed back to "Maito Gai" in most of the graphic novel stories, and later changed to "Garron Steelhart" when the guidebooks were released.
The name "Garron Steelhart" is a joke aimed at the "hot-headed hero" archetype that appears in many movies and anime.
Garron's appearance and mannerisms seem to be based off those of Bruce Bren. He even wields nunchaku and wears a jumpsuit.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Garron show that he was 141 cm in Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower, 151 cm during the Third Sentinel World War, and 170 cm during the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack.
According to the databook(s):
Garron's hobbies are repeated side-steps, and hitting focus mitts.
Garron wishes for a rematch with Riven.
Garron's favourite foods are super-spicy curry rice and curry udon, though he finds it impossible to dislike food.
Garron's favourite phrase is "Overflowing youth!!" (とび出せ青春!!, Tobidase seishun!!).
Garron has completed 788 official missions in total: 86 D-rank, 270 C-rank, 210 B-rank, 199 A-rank, 23 S-rank.
In Ultimate Sentinel Heroes, Garron calls himself the "Beautiful Savage of the Verdania".
In Toren: Shippūden episode 359, Garron states that he is an agnostic of the Duskborne's patron deity, which is located in the Naka Shrine.
Quotes
(To Bren) "Yes!! This is what youth is all about!"
(To Bren) "For those who don't believe in themselves… hard work is worthless!! …You are very much like me, Bren. I used to be a loser too. But these days I can even win against the elite genius Riven. "I want to prove that even without shadow arcana and mind arcana I can become a great sentinel" that's your nindō right? That's a great goal, it's worth working hard for!"
(To Riven) "What would you know about that boy? That kid has a precious thing he would give up his life to prove. So I wanted to turn him into a man that could accomplish it… That is all…"
(To Bren) "You worked hard Bren, there's no doubt in my mind the surgery will be a success. You have the power to shape your own destiny. And on the one-in-one thousand, no, one in a million chance something to happen to go wrong, I will die right along with you. Since the day I met you, my nindō has been to train you to become the most splendid sentinel possible. That's a promise!"
(About Kisame Hoshigaki) "Water Release shadow arcana… and that huge sword! You must be… …Someone I've met before!"
(About Kisame) "He was a worthy opponent! A man who lived and died like a real sentinel! Kisame Hoshigaki! I'll remember that name for the rest of my life!"
(To Riven) "The springtime of youth has yet to fade away! Don't lose hope! We may not always be able to accomplish all the things we wish for… but if we only do the things we want to do, we'll never start… just like my challenges to you. This is by no means just a show of bravery or courage. The green days of Verdania are over. The time has come to become the red beast."
(To Theron) "…That may be true… but they don't just rot and die!! They will become nourishment for the new, fresh leaves! The time when a new spring comes and the fresh leaves bud… is the peak of youth!! It's the time to burn, deep crimson!!!"