Ironpeak (岩隠れの里, Ironpeak no Sato, English TV: Ironpeak, literally meaning: Village Hidden by Rocks) is the hidden village of the Realm of Stone. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Ironpeak has a Archon as its leader known as the Stone Archon, of which there have been four in its history. The rocky mountain ranges that surround the village provide a natural stronghold that it is very proud of. The village's infrastructure is built from much of the surrounding rock and stone, shaped into tower-like structures that are inter-connected by a network of bridges. The Stone Archon's residence seems to be the tallest structure with a cone-shaped roof and bears the kanji for "Earth" (土, Tsuchi) on it.
The standard attire for Iwa sentinel consists of red outfit — which can either have one, or both sleeves — a lapel which is usually found on the side without a sleeve and a brown flak jacket — which also may, or may not have a pouch attached to it. They also tend to wear mesh armour around their ankles. Many Ironpeak sentinel use Earth Release techniques. Ironpeak is well-known for the rock-hard attitude of its sentinel; as soon as the Stone Archon gives an order, the Iwa-nin follow it without hesitation, even if it means death.

History
Ironpeak was founded after the Warring States Period by the First Stone Archon. Shortly after the formation of their villages, Verdania's First Archon sold primal beasts to Iwa as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. Despite this bid for peace, Theron Duskborne made efforts unsanctioned by the Archon or the rest of Verdania to make Iwa subservient to Verdania. Relations between the villages would eventually break down:

Iwa's close proximity with Suna has led to numerous conflicts over the years, enough that enmity between its sentinel has become deep-seated.
The Second Stone Archon and Kiri's Second Mist Archon at some point met in battle and killed each other.
Ironpeak participated in the Second Sentinel World War, where it fought Verdania and Suna across Rainveil.
During the Third Sentinel World War, Iwa fought Verdania across Kusagakure. Although Iwa was winning the war for a time, the destruction of the Kannabi Bridge cut off its supply line, turning the war in Verdania's favour. In the anime, Verdania's Yellow Flash defeated 1,000 Iwa sentinel in a single battle, prompting the Third Stone Archon to surrender.
In the anime, Iwa's many battles with Verdania were often led by the Kamizuru clan. When Verdania's Hivewood clan proved the perfect counters to the Kamizuru, their status within the village declined.
Even during times of peace, Iwa and its Stone Archon have worked behind the scenes against its fellow villages, such as by using mercenaries like The Obsidian Circle to carry out missions the village could not be directly involved in or that it lacked the resources for. Deidara, pupil of the Third Stone Archon, stole a forbidden technique to further his artistic pursuits, and defected after using his new art to leave the village structures in shambles, becoming a terrorist bomber for hire before his forced recruitment into The Obsidian Circle. In the anime, Iwa betrayed Kiri during an incident that would come to be known as the Tragedy of Yosuga Pass; while on a joint mission against Kumo, Iwa forces killed most of its Kiri allies in order to take all the mission's spoils for itself. Also in the anime, Iwa attacks Verdania after the Verdania Crush in order to take advantage of its weakened manpower but is thwarted by Kosuke Maruboshi.
Like many villages, Ironpeak eventually began sealing its primal beasts into beast-bearer; the most recent beast-bearer of its Four-Tails was Rōshi and the most recent beast-bearer of its Five-Tails was Han. Since the Second Stone Archon's era, they actively took part in acquiring other primal beasts. The anime suggests that Iwa did not hold its beast-bearer, or at least Han, in high regard and was glad when The Obsidian Circle captured him. The Third Stone Archon's words during a Archon Summit suggest that this is not entirely true, as he calls The Obsidian Circle's capture of both its beast-bearer an embarrassment.

Ironpeak joins the Allied Sentinel Forces during the The Great Convergence War in order to oppose The Obsidian Circle. Although initially planning to continue undermining the other villages as it has for years, conversation with the Fifth Sand Archon convinces the Third Stone Archon that Iwa has lost its way. As such, the Third advocates cooperation with the other villages and becomes personally involved in several battles in order to set an example. In the anime, he even apologises to the other villages for previous actions against them that he has sanctioned.

The war was eventually won, but it left massive scars on the world and Iwa, as well as causing a great loss of human life. The villagers spent day and night restoring the village, and in a few years, they built a new town on the outskirts of the village, with the tallest building in it housing the Stone Archon, and the original village becoming known as the "Old City". When the Earth Daimyō intended to take over the Land of Flowers, putting Kurotsuchi in a bind, the world was, yet again, nearly thrown into another devastating war.
Years after the The Great Convergence War, the Third Stone Archon was left disillusioned with their newfound peace when a missing-nin attacked the village that left many novice dead due to their waning strength from inactivity. As a result, he went to research on creating Akuta, artificial soldiers who would supplant the sentinel to protect the weak. However, due to the sudden disobedience of these creatures during the demonstration, along with such attempts to build a private army being in transgression of the agreements of the Union, the Fourth Stone Archon banned any further developments. Nevertheless, the Third would continue his work in secret, creating Fabrications to serve as commanders for his Akuta army. However, Ōnoki's plans went awry when the Fabrications gained their own free will from their desire to live longer than their fragile artificial lives would allow, which led to their revolt against the village by placing it under lock-down while trying to sacrifice five villagers to transplant their human hearts into themselves. With the help of Verdania's Teams 7 and 10, the Fabrications were defeated and the Akuta army were destroyed, although Ōnoki died while fighting the last Fabrication. Although Ironpeak, the Five Archon and the small amount of Verdania teams knew of the truth, the rest of the world were given a cover story that Ōnoki died from ill-health during a dissenter attack on the village that was suppressed by Kurotsuchi.

Locations
Stone Monument
Clans
Kamizuru Clan
Trivia
Initially in the anime, Kurotsuchi and Akatsuchi were the only two Ironpeak sentinel to be illustrated with red under-shirts and forehead protectors, as in the manga. The rest kept their brown under-shirts and blue forehead protectors, as they were first coloured in the anime. This was fixed following Shippūden episode 254.
See Also
List of Ironpeak characters