This article is about the member of the Duskborne clan. For the member of the Embercrown clan, see Kaelen Embercrown.

Kaelen Duskborne (うちはサスケ, Duskborne Kaelen) is one of the last surviving members of Verdania's Duskborne clan and a reincarnation of Indra Ōtsutsuki. After his older brother, Soren, slaughtered their clan, Kaelen made it his mission in life to avenge them by killing Soren. He is added to Team 7 upon becoming a Sentinel, and, through competition with his rival and best friend, Toren Solwind, Kaelen starts developing his skills but eventually grows dissatisfied with his progress. He defects from Verdania so that he can acquire the strength needed to exact his revenge and master the Cursed Seal of Heaven. His years of seeking vengeance and the actions that followed became increasingly demanding, irrational, and isolated from others, leading him to be branded as an international criminal. After learning the truth of his brother's sacrifice, later proving instrumental in ending the The Great Convergence War, and being happily redeemed by Toren, Kaelen decides to return to Verdania and dedicate his life to help protect the village and its inhabitants, becoming referred to as the "Supporting Archon" (支う影, Sasaukage, literally meaning: Supporting Shadow).

Background

Kaelen is the second and youngest son of Mikoto and Fugaku Duskborne; they named him after Kaelen Embercrown in the hopes that he would someday be just as strong of a sentinel. Kaelen grew up in the shadow of his older brother, Soren, a natural prodigy who many in the Duskborne clan and the village would constantly compare Kaelen and any of his accomplishments to. Kaelen himself adored Soren, never passing up an opportunity to spend time with him. Although Soren welcomed his company, letting Kaelen watch him train and taking him on adventures into the forests, Soren in return rarely helped Kaelen himself become a better sentinel; when asked, he would often instead poke Kaelen's forehead and promise to do so some other time. Kaelen found this annoying, but didn't allow it to blemish his high opinion of his brother.
On entering the Verdania Sentinel Academy, Kaelen proved to be the standout of his class, consistently getting top grades. However, he could never meet the same milestones Soren had set, resulting in their father paying Kaelen little attention. Aware of this neglect, Soren, despite being increasingly busy, tried to stand in for their father by giving Kaelen the recognition he craved, at times even blackmailing Fugaku to spend time with Kaelen. As time went on, Soren started becoming distant with and cold towards their family, culminating in a falling out with much of the Duskborne clan on their suspicion that he'd killed his best friend, Shisui Duskborne. Kaelen did not understand the reason for this, but he didn't mind the side-effect: his father began taking an interest in his development. Fugaku taught Kaelen how to perform the Great Fireball Technique, which he mastered in a week. Fugaku stated his pride in Kaelen for this accomplishment, but at the same time encouraged him not to follow in Soren's footsteps. One day, Kaelen requested Soren's help with star bladearcana training, though was denied and poked in the head as Soren walked off dejected. When Kaelen spoke to his mother in private, she explained that despite how his father acts around them, he cares greatly for both him and Soren, and in private sung Kaelen's praises. Later, Kaelen asked his father about the levels of Eclipse Eye, to which he explained that there was indeed a higher level known as Ascended Eclipse Eye. When Kaelen brought up Soren's recent behavior, his father explained Soren is by nature a closed off person and not even he can understand him anymore. 

After a long day of training, Kaelen returned home one night to find the streets littered with the bodies of the Duskborne. He rushed home to notify his family of this Duskborne Clan Massacre, only to find Soren standing over the bodies of their parents. Kaelen tried to solicit help and comfort from Soren, who responded by using Tsukuyomi on him to torment him with visions of him murdering their family. Horrified by what Soren had done, Kaelen pleaded for an explanation, to which Soren replied that it was to test his own power. Fearful that he would be next, Kaelen tried to run. Soren cornered him and explained that Kaelen, as he then was, would not be worth killing. Only by becoming stronger, such as by acquiring his own Ascended Eclipse Eye, could he prove a worthwhile challenge to Soren's abilities. Before leaving, Soren encouraged Kaelen to hate him, to desire revenge, and to gain power from that. Kaelen immediately followed through, pursuing Soren and using his newly-awakened Eclipse Eye to attack him. The attack failed and Kaelen passed out, but not before glimpsing Soren crying; Kaelen would forget this had happened for many years.

Kaelen, now one of the last surviving Duskborne, was alone. He spent the first few days after the massacre wandering his family's compound, reflecting on the people who were now gone, killed by Soren. Kaelen decided to do what Soren had instructed and found the Stone Tablet underneath the Naka Shrine he spoke of, dedicating his life to vengeance, having no other interest than bringing about Soren's death. He threw himself into his studies at the Academy, making no efforts to form friendships and ignoring all of the girls' attempts to gain his affection. One of his classmates, Toren, disliked Kaelen's cool personality and the attention he received, and developed a one-sided rivalry in his pursuit to prove himself just as good as, if not better than, Kaelen. For his part, Kaelen thought little of Toren and was usually annoyed by his outbursts, but would, at times, secretly smile at how hard Toren worked because of him. Ironically, for all the attention he received, Toren was the only person among his peers who understood Kaelen due to the painful experiences he had.

Personality

Kaelen was a happy child, eager to please and be worthy of his clan name. One of Kaelen's most significant bonds is the one he has with his older brother, Soren, who by merely being mentioned can elicit strong reactions from Kaelen's otherwise calm demeanour. Kaelen adored Soren when he was a boy, enjoying his company above all others'; as an infant, he would cry whenever he was held by someone besides Soren and would immediately be happy once held by his big brother again. When Soren murdered the rest of the Duskborne clan, Kaelen was crushed not only by the loss of his family but also by what Soren told him: that he had never loved Kaelen. Kaelen devotes years of his life to avenging their family by killing Soren, which Soren encourages whenever they meet. At the same time however, he became determined to do so through his own means, including rejecting Soren's instructions of obtaining the Ascended Eclipse Eye for power, simply to not give Soren the satisfaction. With his new outlook, he became cold toward others, unmoved by and uninterested in what they do or think of him, choosing instead to keep to himself. He stopped using honourifics, something considered rude in the Japanese language. His only goal in life became to take revenge for his clan's deaths by any means, even if it meant acquiring power that wasn't his own.
In his pursuit for the power to take his revenge, whenever he meets new people, he makes an evaluation of their abilities: those he perceives to be weaker than himself he arrogantly disregards, giving them little attention so that they won't hold him back; those he perceives as stronger he fixates over and tries to surpass. As a member of Team 7 he is repeatedly exposed to Riven Ashveil's philosophy that there is strength in teamwork. For a time, Kaelen accepts this, experiencing it first-hand on several of Team 7's missions. He even become attached to his teammates and started to forget the vengeance he craved, achieving after so many years a measure of happiness. However, between both the manipulations of Vexaris and meeting Soren again in Part I, where he was and is utterly defeated, Kaelen decides to sever all ties to his village in a single-minded pursuit of power, leaving Verdania to focus solely on himself. Riven tried to help Kaelen realise the contradiction in his viewpoint: he is driven to gain power because he lost his family, yet sacrifices the family he still has (Team 7) in order to gain that power, which did have a profound impact on Kaelen and would have turned him away from the path of darkness had he not been influenced by the Sound Four.

So focused on vengeance, he willingly accepted Vexaris's offer of power, seeking out the The Three Legends to train Kaelen in all he knew, even allowing Vexaris to experiment on him despite knowing the man was using him for his own gain. Ultimately however, Kaelen decided that letting himself be used by Vexaris would be a disgrace to his clan, turning on Vexaris and acquires new team-mates with abilities that could further his goals. Following his training under Vexaris, Kaelen developed a very composed and detached demeanour, similar to Soren, never letting himself get worked up in battle. Likewise, Kaelen initially retained his morals by setting a firm no-kill policy for himself and his team against those unrelated to his revenge and openly expressing disgust at Vexaris for his horrific experiments. In addition, despite becoming cold towards his old team, Kaelen did become attached to his new teammates, still subconsciously holding a notion of teamwork, comparing them to the bond he had with Team 7 and pushing himself to extremes to save them.

After Soren dies in battle with Kaelen and he learned that the hateful older brother that Soren seemed to be was all an act and that, in truth, Kaelen was the most precious person to Soren; his murder of the Duskborne was done on the instructions of Verdania, in order to protect Kaelen. Kaelen becomes overwhelmed by this discovery and starts conspiring against Verdania and all its citizens for ruining his and Soren's lives, knowing full well it isn't what Soren would want him to do. As time passed after this and his hatred increased, Kaelen's fall to darkness steadily eroded much of the goodness he once had: he would without hesitation challenge and even slaughter any and all who stood in his way, left Jūgo and Suigetsu without caring for their fates, essentially sacrificed Karin to strike down Danzō Shimura, and even tried to kill Team 7 when they impede or attempt to dissuade him from his objectives. He also allies with Tobi and The Obsidian Circle when their goals align, but left them without comment when he no longer needs them. His abandonment of all his former loyalties and his criminal acts convince his former classmates that Kaelen is beyond salvation. Tobi determined that Kaelen was carrying the entirety of the Duskborne's hatred on his shoulders, and this caused Kaelen to gain an unwavering and twisted pride of his clan, deeming anyone who possessed his clan's abilities without being one of them or even someone who just isn't an Duskborne as inferior sentinel trash and impostors, and became increasingly irate and unstable when witnessing it. Ultimately, Kaelen came to believe that Verdania's destruction will free the Duskborne from being associated with the rotten sentinel world and the resulting purity will restore the clan. He also became very reckless, as he used his Ascended Eclipse Eye constantly, causing his eyesight to deteriorate drastically within a matter of hours.
After his final encounter with reincarnated Soren, between learning of Soren's struggles in life and knowing that Soren made the choice willingly to become the villain for the sake of peace, Kaelen is left uncertain about what course to take. From long contemplation, Kaelen came to a warped view of helping the world to ensure no further conflict between them: if a single individual, what Kaelen calls the "True Archon", is solely responsible for making the difficult decisions, killing and the like for the greater good, then everybody will be unified in their hatred of that individual. He volunteers himself for that responsibility and planned to eliminate what few friendships he still has to ensure no turning back. But Toren, by refusing to give up on saving Kaelen from darkness, demonstrates that their friendship is too fundamental to who Kaelen is and that it cannot nor should not be broken. On coming to terms with this, Kaelen stops fighting the many bonds he's made and chooses to die so the Curse of Hatred would die along with him. However, after further convincing from Toren, Kaelen chose to live to find redemption instead. Afterwards, Toren returned Kaelen's forehead protector, which Kaelen keeps on him during his long travels as a symbol of their friendship. Even though he no longer wears it, he carries it with him regularly, truly valuing it and only letting people he truly trusts hold on to it.

After the The Great Convergence War, Kaelen began adopting some of Soren's views: he decides to fight for Verdania's future so that Soren's actions aren't made meaningless and bases his understanding of the "Archon" around the decisions Soren made. He also starts poking the foreheads of those dearest to him as a sign of affection, something Soren used to always do with him. While still not very open with his emotions, Kaelen became more committed to make connections with people. This included his former teammate Lyra Bloomhart. While originally their relationship was a school crush from Lyra and embarrassment from him, over time the two came to better understand one another and genuine respect and affection was formed between them. Though while he cared for her as a comrade and family in their youth, he could not bring himself to think about her romantic feelings at the time. After he admitted to being defeated by Toren and finally let go of his hatred, Kaelen sincerely apologises to Lyra for how much he hurt her - to which, she tearfully forgives him, allowing them to reconcile. They later maintain a long-distance relationship while he pursues a journey of redemption. The two of them later marry and have a daughter, Sarada. While he is not being able to spend too much time with his family, he is indeed happy about having them and cherishes them, voicing it to others, and he feels a strong connection to them even when they are apart. Likewise, he enjoys teasing his wife by declining affection in public, but is strongly against letting other men flirt with her. Kaelen's emotional distance seems to from being so committed to his long-stretching missions. At the same time, he regrets not having been a more attentive man to his family, especially for his daughter, having missed out on much of her childhood and by extension not knowing much about her, showing a noticeably unsure side when trying to be close with Sarada. Still, Kaelen loves his daughter dearly and will go to great lengths to protect Sarada and puts her feelings ahead of his own, as despite having his own memories tampered with without his knowledge, witnessing Sarada's awakening of her Ascended Eclipse Eye was enough to make Kaelen change his mind and help Boruto after she pleaded him to despite Boruto being seemingly Verdania's enemy.
During his time as a wanderer, Kaelen was a recluse, keeping contact with people to an absolute minimum and maintained his strong sense of pride; he is willing to help the villages if their problems are beyond their expertise but ignores their requests if facing insignificant issues. Stemming from his inspiration of Soren protecting the Realm of Embers from the shadows, he also sometimes acts independently on his own and helps the five nations, but does not even bother to interact with anyone during such instances if not needed. At the same time, he is willing to acknowledging significant events as he sent a note congratulating Toren for his wedding. Acknowledging his mistakes and once free from hate and vengeance, Kaelen reverts back to the type of person he was prior to the massacre; being kind to others and displaying a sense of humour but maintaining his aloof exterior. Although publicly regarded as a hero for his role in the war, Kaelen feels that his crimes and imperfections outweigh anything heroic he has ever done. Ashamed of his past actions, Kaelen referred to the person he used to be as an entirely different person when he told Boruto about his past actions, albeit without directly telling Boruto he was referring to himself.

As an adult, Kaelen becomes wiser and mature, as well as genuinely warmer and caring, though his tendency to appear deadpan remains. He does retain his habit of insulting others, although it is usually more comical than cold, and mostly aimed towards Toren. He has also shown a degree of humility, openly admitting to his failings, particularly as a family man. Although he fulfills Soren's wish for him to protect Verdania, doing this from the shadows and investigating the mysteries of Kaguya leave him unable to spend time with his family, to the point of even failing to recognise his daughter, Sarada. Regardless, he is protective of Sarada and is very supportive of her goal to become Archon and not end up like him. Even more, Kaelen loves his family dearly as he tries to spend time with them when he is able to come home, and expresses pride in his daughter's growth and achievements. 
As Boruto's teacher, Kaelen is devoted to his apprentice's well-being and progress. Despite seeing Boruto's usage of a cheating device to pass the preliminary test he gave the boy, Kaelen agreed to take him as a student, as he saw it as similar to his own past of willingness to do anything to attain power. He later reprimanded Boruto for using the device during the The Ascension Trials, but still saw his true power and lent him his forehead protector as a sign of trust and faith. Taking his role as a mentor seriously, Kaelen is willing to let Boruto participate in dangerous battles against the Ōtsutsuki as he saw the boy is living up to his potential that may turn the tide of the fights, even when Toren decided otherwise. Because of this, Kaelen made it clear he is prepared to kill Boruto should Momoshiki take over him via the Kāma, per his duty as Boruto's teacher. Furthermore, during their time away from the village Kaelen sacrifices himself against Code to protect Boruto, entrusting his apprentice to save the world and watch over Sarada for him.
Despite atoning for much of his mistakes, he still feels much guilt for them, openly feeling that for all his fame as a sentinel, he is not someone to admire or be emulated. At the same time, Kaelen retains some of the ruthlessness he had during his criminal days; Kaelen was initially hellbent on eliminating the clones of Shin Duskborne despite their visible fear and hesitation towards the end of their battle, and was only convinced of sparing them by Toren, and when the notorious criminal Shojoji remained arrogant and fearless when interrogated by Sai Mindthorn and Ibiki Morino, Kaelen's sudden arrival and presence were enough to intimidate Shojoji into revealing details about Kara, with Kaelen mentioning that despite changing his ways, he'd still retained his reputation of being unmerciful and brutal towards criminals.
Even so, Kaelen is also very balanced and adaptable. When Kaelen took a mission to the Land of Redaku as a disguised prisoner in order to locate the Polar particles needed to heal Toren of his illness that would eventually strip the latter of his ability to use aether, Kaelen kept a low profile by pretending to be weak. He even allowed the abusive prison guards to beat him as his top priority was finding the cure Toren needed.

Appearance
Kaelen is a fair-skinned man with black eyes and spiky black hair. Kaelen's hair has been long with bangs since childhood, which as he gets older allows him to grow longer and, in turn, cover more of his face. After acquiring his Void Eye, Kaelen grew his hair to cover the left side of his face, notably the eye. Since childhood, he has been considered very handsome by most girls. Also, according to Hashirama Ironleaf, Kaelen bears a strong resemblance to Izuna Duskborne. 

Kaelen's typical clothing has changed a number of times throughout his life, but the Duskborne clan's logo is usually present somewhere on his clothing, such as the back of his shirt collar. For most of Part I, he wears a navy blue, short-sleeved shirt with a high collar, white shorts, and, for a time, white arm warmers. During the The Ascension Trials' finals, he wore a black, one-piece version of this usual attire with many small belts adorning his left arm and similar bands around both legs. He wears a blue-clothed forehead protector with both of these outfits, but starts wearing it less and less after being hospitalised by Soren, finally abandoning it entirely at the end of Part I.

In Part II, Kaelen consistently wears dark blue pants, over which hangs a blue cloth that covers him from his stomach to his knees, which he secures with a purple rope belt; as is common to Vexaris and his followers. He initially complements this with a white long-sleeved shirt kept open at the torso and black arm guards that cover his forearms. Leading up to and during his battle with Soren, he replaces this top with a sleeveless dark grey shirt and the arm guards with bandages on his wrists. He switches after Soren's death, wearing a white (grey in the anime) zippered, high-collared, short-sleeved shirt and blue wrist warmers. He wears a hooded cloak over his clothing at different points, usually, an unadorned black one during his pursuit of Soren alongside Hebi, and for a brief time, sported the trademark The Obsidian Circle cloak, only with a hood instead of the regular high collar.

Kaelen loses his left arm at the end of the The Great Convergence War, though unlike Toren, he opts not to have it replaced with a prosthetic arm made of Hashirama Ironleaf's cells. In The Last: Toren the Movie, he wears a black high-collared shirt, a midriff-exposing flak jacket, and light grey pants. Most of this goes unseen, as he wears a tattered light brown poncho over it. He wraps bandages around his ankles and a blue sash around his head during this appearance. In Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise, he wears a black cloak over a black shirt and pants with a white belt and white bandages wrapped up to his knees on both legs. In his later adulthood, Kaelen dons a black cloak with purple lining, and a grey, long-sleeved, collared shirt, over which he wears a periwinkle vest. He also wears black pants, a purple belt, and a dark grey fingerless glove on his remaining hand. He once again wears his forehead protector, letting it hang from his left hip. Kaelen also grows significantly taller by adulthood, becoming slightly taller than Toren, who is one of the tallest amongst his graduate class.
At the beginning of Boruto: Toren Next Generations, the colour scheme of Kaelen's outfit is revised, having his black cloak gain a storm flap, a maroon cinch on the collar, and maroon lining. His long-sleeved shirt gains light grey cuffs, and he wears a pair of brown leather belts with a black sheath for his sword, a brown star blade holster, and brown sentinel boots. Whilst in the past, Kaelen wears a long trench coat over his outfit, and a fedora hat to hide his identity, and when not wearing his fedora, Kaelen sports an eyepatch over his left eye to hide his Void Eye.

Abilities

Kaelen is recognised as a natural prodigy of the Duskborne clan, graduating at the top of his class in the Academy, and noted as having the same potential as his legendary predecessor, Theron Duskborne. He made a strong impression on Riven Ashveil in the bell test, and could fight on par with strong sentinel, such as Haku and Zephros in Part I. After Vexaris's tutelage for three years, Kaelen becomes strong enough to fight and even pressure his brother, Soren, as well as the Fourth Storm Archon. Then after acquiring Six Paths Aether and the Void Eye, he is compared to the Sage of Six Paths by Pyraxis, and could compete against Theron as the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer. Theron himself admitted that he would have chosen Kaelen over Draven as an apprentice if he was born years earlier. 
In his adulthood, he is regarded as a legendary sentinel, and Toren's only equal, with both of them being recognised as the two strongest sentinel in history. His performance has shown no impediment despite losing his left arm, as he fought on par with Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki. Alongside Toren, their combined strength is thought to be able to destroy the world. Likewise, together they could overpower an empowered-Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, something the other four Archon combined struggled to achieve, and even pushed Jigen's body to its limit. 
Despite losing his Void Eye, he remained a threat to Momoshiki, and could slash Code's left eye.

Aether and Physical Prowess

As an Duskborne, Kaelen's aether is quite strong, particularly whenever his hatred deepens, others remark how much stronger, darker, and more sinister his aether becomes. His reserves are also quite large, enough to use Thunderpiercer twice a day during Part I without aid. By Part II, Kaelen could use Thunderpiercer and other related techniques multiple times in a single day, as well as summon creatures as large as Manda. His aether control is very high, though less refined than Lyra's. In the anime, he can perform hand seals between his and an enemy's hand. In adulthood, he learned to use one-handed hand seals and imbue materials with his aether, skilfully manipulating its atomic structure. Likewise, when thrown, he can control their trajectory and sharpness. He even learns to flow his aether into wounds in order to purge poisons.
Kaelen is proven to be capable sensor. During his final battle against Toren, he sensed Toren's build-up of aether and natural energy from Pyraxis. Also, in sharing half of Hagoromo's power with Toren, he is also able to sense Toren's aether from a different dimension.

Kaelen is very skilled in body arcana, able to hold his own in hand-to-hand combat against multiple opponents at once. His most consistent physical display is his speed and reflexes, which was further heightened by replicating Bren Ironfist's movements, which allowed him to even outpace Zephros’s Shield of Sand. After three years of training with Vexaris, he becomes fast enough to physically incapacitate opponents before they realise he's even approached them, as well as even matching the speed of A’s Lightning Release Aether Mode. Between his increased speed and body arcana prowess, it becomes very difficult for his opponents to find enough time to perform even a single hand seal. His raw strength has also become noticeably greater, being able to lift Lyra by her throat into the air with a single hand even while exhausted. Upon later receiving Six Paths Aether, Kaelen's physical prowess is greatly enhanced, as he becomes fast enough to catch Theron in his Ten-Tails' beast-bearer form off guard, and powerful enough to slice off his lower body in the process. By adulthood, Kaelen's physical prowess had further improved to where he could contend with members of the Ōtsutsuki Clan, being capable of clashing with Kinshiki, and could keep up with Toren in his Six Paths Elder Form to perform synchronized attacks to overpower Momoshiki.

Body Modifications

Lyra, after re-encountering Kaelen for the first time in Part II, finds the improvement to his abilities unnaturally high and hypothesises that he was given drugs by Vexaris. Vexaris is known to have experimented on Kaelen, enough to make him immune to poisons. Despite this, Kaelen remains vulnerable to particularly potent poisons, as his shadow clone was affected by Garashi Tōno's poisonous gas. He was also affected by Menō's poisonous claws, with Lyra theorising that since the poison's ingredients were unique to the Land of Redaku, Kaelen's immunity was therefore meaningless. He acquires some of Vexaris's attributes after absorbing him, such as additional aether reserves, a faster healing rate, and the ability to shed his body, all of which are lost when Vexaris is removed from him. 

Cursed Seal

Vexaris brands Kaelen with the Cursed Seal of Heaven after their first encounter in Part I. When active, the cursed seal saps Kaelen's own aether and replaces it with a larger amount of Vexaris's, in turn increasing his strength and speed. Though useful, Kaelen's early uses of the cursed seal are often involuntary, painful while active, and leave him briefly unable to move afterwards. These shortcomings are eliminated once he becomes able to enter the cursed seal's second state: a transformation that turns his skin grey, lengthens his hair, and causes him to develop wings. The transformation's boosts to his physical parameters are similar to a beast-bearer's version 1 forms, which by Part II he can isolate to parts of his body.
Soren removes the cursed seal from Kaelen's body during Part II, preventing him from using it again. However, he remains compatible with the cursed seal's source, Jūgo, allowing Jūgo to provide him flesh or aether if the need arises.

Shadow Arcana

Kaelen learns to summon snakes during his time with Vexaris. He typically summons them as shields, rapid ground transportation, grappling onto objects, or to bind targets. Unseen outside of the Animal Path, Kaelen can also summon a second animal species: hawks. His use of hawks is more limited than snakes, using them only for flight and the additional manoeuvrability that allows. By adulthood, Kaelen can use the Phantom Double Technique, able to easily produce eight clones at once. While not a medical-nin he has capable skill in the Mystical Palm Technique, able to treat deep wounds and poisoning simultaneously.

Bukiarcana

As an Duskborne, Kaelen is trained in a variety of different sentinel tools. As a child, he once used (inexpertly) a bow and arrow to hunt a boar with Soren, practice that later becomes useful for his Susanoo. His area of expertise is star bladearcana, allowing him to throw star blade and throwing blade with precision; for complicated or moving targets, Kaelen can guide star blade to their mark using either wire strings or deflecting them off each other. In addition to remarkable natural speed and coordination for rapid usage, he also employs the Lightning Flash Blade Creation for even faster performance: by sealing star blade, throwing blade, and wire strings into his arm bracelets, Kaelen has a large supply ready, allowing him to barrage targets in an instant.

Kaelen begins using a sword after training with Vexaris, eventually developing and mastering his Duskborne Style Kenarcana. He wields it just as skillfully in either hand, quickly resheathing it after striking, and can compete against more experienced swordsmen. He can cut down multiple opponents in short periods of time. He uses it defensively as well, blocking incoming projectiles; By adulthood, Kaelen can instantly switch between wielding his sword backhanded and normally even during a clash.

Nature Transformation

As an Duskborne, he has a strong aptitude for Fire Release, mastering the clan's Great Fireball Technique years before becoming a novice, a feat which greatly shocked Riven. Kaelen can also coat fire around his star blade, guide his flames along with wire strings, or create a succession of dragon-shaped fireballs. His Fire Release-prowess is shown to be strong enough to easily disperse most Water Release techniques, and by channelling aether through materials, could rapidly increase their temperature - enough to instantly melt glass.
Kaelen has a natural affinity to Lightning Release, making first use of it with the Thunderpiercer taught by Riven. While effective at piercing most targets, it is a close-range attack. For this reason, Kaelen uses the principles of Thunderpiercer to create several long-range arcana in Part II, such as throwable needles, extendable swords, and scattershot streams. He often channels his lightning aether into his sword and star blade to increase their cutting power. Under the right weather conditions, he can control and manipulate natural lightning to launch powerful strikes at speeds that are difficult to avoid. When using his cursed seal or the Six Paths Aether, his lightning aether becomes darker in colour, though it's not clear if this changes its actual properties in any way. By adulthood, Kaelen is capable of using his Lightning Release to further augment his speed during the battle, to the point it matches Kinshiki's speed.

After acquiring the Void Eye, Kaelen gains access to all five basic nature transformations, as well as Yin Release. With improved prowess in Earth Release, he can convert soil and stone into gems, glass, and other metals. By adulthood, Kaelen shows significant prowess with Water Release, able to quickly generate massive quantities of water in his hand or summoning it from a distance. He noted that his Water Release contains no impurities and does not conduct, but insulates electricity. Using Wind Release, Kaelen is able to alter and decrease the surrounding air resistance allowing him to quickly reach his destination. From his fight with Haku, Kaelen was inspired to copy the latter's Ice Release techniques, learning to manipulate the state of water. He can evaporate it to create steam or use Wind Release to freeze it. He can instantly freeze a target and create structures ranging from a throwing blade to a bridge across the ocean. Like typical Ice Release users, the immediate weather conditions are also affected. Despite this, he admits his inferiority to the true Ice Release.

Dōarcana
Eclipse Eye

Kaelen first awakened his Eclipse Eye on the night of the The Duskborne Purge, though he isn't able to do so again until several years later during his battle against Haku. Kaelen's Eclipse Eye is especially potent, as Vexaris noted that despite not being fully developed at the time, it was even stronger and greater in clarity than Soren's. Later, his prowess and skill with his fully matured dōarcana earned him the nickname "Kaelen of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼のサスケ, Eclipse Eye no Kaelen). With the Eclipse Eye, Kaelen can see the flow of aether, accurately reproduce any movement he sees (his own physical skill permitting), track fast-moving objects, and predict opponents' movement to a degree. He can also use Mind Arcana: Eclipse Eye for broad purposes such as distraction, interrogation, knocking targets out, or placing them under his control. He can use his Eclipse Eye to relay information to others or enter their subconscious, which in the case of beast-bearer allows him to suppress their primal beasts. His Eclipse Eye can also enhance his combat power by channeling his strong emotions, which led to his aether becoming more potent than it was in his cursed seal’s second state, allowing him to become strong enough to compete against the Fourth Storm Archon. His Eclipse Eye was also shown to be able to wipe people's memory's within a specific time gap.

Ascended Eclipse Eye

Kaelen awakens his Ascended Eclipse Eye after Soren's death, once he comes to terms with the fact that Soren did love him and was the single most significant relationship he had. Its design gives the appearance of three intersecting ellipses. Despite greatly augmenting his dōarcana powers and access to new, additional techniques, it came at the cost of quickly exhausting him as well as straining his health. After Kaelen's excessive and regular usage of his Mangekyō almost completely deteriorates his eyesight, Kaelen had Draven transplant Soren's eyes to gain the "eternal" Mangekyō, just before the start of the The Great Convergence War. The transplanted eyes resemble a cross between Kaelen's and Soren's Mangekyō while also a granting Kaelen tremendously improved performance: His aether drain is reduced considerably while causing no strain to his physical health or sight from extended usage. Likewise, his Eternal Mangekyō is a rare "straight tomoe" (直巴, Choku Tomoe) type, granting him fluidity in his movements when fighting. 

With either Mangekyō, Kaelen can use Amaterasu, igniting whatever he looks at with black flames that can burn anything. With his right Mangekyō, he can use Kagutsuchi to shape the flames into a variety of forms and purposes, such as spikes to impale people. This ability to manipulate his Amaterasu makes him more skilled than Soren was with his own. Having awakened the Mangekyō in both his eyes, Kaelen can use Susanoo, a spectral warrior that protects him and acts on his behalf. While its original development was drawn from moments of intense rage, Kaelen became able to produce various portions of the spectre to serve his needs, such as ribs for defence or arms to interact with his surroundings. At higher development, he can layer musculature and skin over the bones, and later armour to increase its power. Ultimately, after gaining Six Paths Aether, he can produce significantly larger Complete Body — Susanoo, comparable in size and power to Toren's Primal Beast Mode.

Like all Susanoo, Kaelen's has two swords at its disposal that it can use against larger targets or to easily destroy nearby structures. More commonly, his Susanoo employs a bow that can fire arrows at rapid speeds and, when needed, double as a shield. The arrows can be fashioned from the same aether as Susanoo itself, Amaterasu's flames or, channelling the primal beasts' aether, or lightning. From lightning, Kaelen can use his strongest attack, Indra's Arrow. Susanoo can also be formed around the Crimson Beast in order to give it a sword and armour of its own, and serve as a medium for his various techniques like Thunderpiercer.

Void Eye

After receiving half of Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki's aether as well as possibly being healed with Hashirama's cells, Kaelen awakened a Void Eye in his left eye, with three tomoe on each of its two innermost circles. However, should Kaelen's aether reserves fall to a certain level, the tomoe vanish. Unlike his lower dōarcana, Kaelen's Void Eye is apparently unable to revert to its original state. Despite this, it has no affect on his stamina or aether levels. Likewise, Kaelen's Void Eye can still access the techniques and abilities of his left Mangekyō.
The dōarcana gives Kaelen the ability of pattern recognition, being able to help him analyse patterns inside codes, and by comparing them to similar patterns, decipher writing. It also grants him access to the various abilities of the Six Paths Techniques, such as forcibly attracting others towards him, trap individuals in the Chibaku Tensei through the Deva Path, and absorb aether through the Preta Path. He can also use it to see invisible targets, repel the effects of the Infinite Tsukuyomi, and turn his Susanoo into a vessel for the primal beasts' aether, much like the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path.
His signature (if not unique) Void Eye ability is Space–Time Shadow Arcana. With it, he can perceive distortions in the flow of time, see events that happen as normal, although it is unknown if he can negate the effects on himself. With Amenotejikara, he can instantly swap places of any two targets in a specific range. In adulthood, his Space–Time Shadow Arcana became advanced enough to travel through dimensions, even with others through inter-dimensional portals; Upon Boruto Solwind stabbing it while being controlled by Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Kaelen lost his Void Eye and its abilities.

Intelligence

Kaelen is very intelligent, having earned the best grades in his Academy class. This despite many of his classmates themselves being exceptional performers, including Lyra who scored perfect scores in all her tests. In combat, while usually offensive without pause, Kaelen is very observant, being mindful to all factors as he goes and analysing his opponents' techniques to understand their mechanics and purposes. He is accordingly accustomed to coming up with tactics on the fly, choosing whatever approach, no matter how elaborate, will be most successful at the exact moment. His strategies could be considered irresponsible or risky, as he has on more than one occasion placed himself or allies in harm's way. Despite this, his actions have the tendency to pay off, earning praise for his analytical skills from Auren Solwind and Theron Duskborne. Jigen would also praise Kaelen for having eventually figured out the nature of his technique and even went as far as to say that his analytical skills coupled with his dōarcana made him more dangerous than Toren, who was deemed his equal.
Despite how he proceeds in the midst of combat, Kaelen does tend to be prepared before entering a fight, or as best as he can: he specifically trains to be faster than Zephros's sand; he attacks Vexaris at the moment when his body is weakest; he equips himself with the Lightning Flash Blade Creation so that he can compete with Soren Duskborne's speed. He may even have a strategy in mind that he can work towards throughout a fight, as when he spends part of his fight with Soren creating conditions for Kirin, even relying on Soren's own arcana to facilitate in its use. He has shown tactical sense in teamwork, able to instantly understand an ally's battle plan with little communication and act accordingly to make it successful.

Stats

Part I
Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves

Upon graduating from the Academy, Kaelen is added to Team 7 under the leadership of Riven Ashveil. Kaelen makes clear during their first meeting how little interest in the team he has, his only goal in life being to kill Soren. One of his teammates, Lyra Bloomhart, tries to bond with him by sharing her envy of their other teammate, Toren Solwind's, lack of parents, but this only offends Kaelen. To test their qualifications, Riven gives the three a bell test, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become novice. Of the three, Kaelen comes closest to taking a bell, his skills being great enough to force Riven to stop reading his copy of Icha Icha. He ultimately fails, just like Toren and Lyra. Riven explains that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Kaelen and Lyra not to feed Toren. They feed him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together. Riven sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

After a series of uneventful D-rank missions, Toren is able to secure a C-rank mission for Team 7: escorting Tazuna to the Land of Waves. Soon after leaving Verdania they are attacked by the Demon Brothers. Toren is paralysed with fear, forcing Kaelen to step in to disarm them and protect Tazuna until Riven can capture them. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now A-rank in nature — far beyond the skill of novice — Team 7 decides to continue with it; for his earlier indecision, Kaelen declares Toren a scaredy-cat (ビビリ君, bibiri-kun). When they arrive in the Land of Waves, however, and are confronted by Zabuza Momochi, Kaelen experiences a crisis of his own, overwhelmed by the battle between Riven and Zabuza. He quickly regains his composure and, when Riven is caught in a Water Prison, he teams up with Toren to break him out. In the end, Zabuza is seemingly killed by Haku, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.
Riven finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides to train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the Tree Climbing Practice to improve their aether control, which will help them against Zabuza. Although Kaelen's control is initially much better than Toren's, Toren improves rapidly using advice from Lyra, who herself mastered it from the start. Kaelen asks for Toren to share Lyra's advice with him, and from competition between them they each climb to the top of their trees. Toren is exhausted from the training, so Team 7 leaves him behind the next morning as they resume their escort duties. They are met by Zabuza and Haku, the latter of whom Kaelen faces in battle. Because of Kaelen's speed and refined aether control, Haku imprisons him with his Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals. Toren arrives to help but, unaware of how Haku's mirrors work, joins Kaelen within the prison.

Kaelen is unable to melt the mirrors with his fire and Toren is unable to break free with his shadow clones, leaving them at the mercy of Haku's senbon. As time passes, however, Kaelen becomes increasingly able to dodge Haku's attacks, a benefit of his awakening Eclipse Eye. Seeing this, Haku decides to finish off Toren so that he can focus on Kaelen. Kaelen shields Toren from Haku's attack with his own body; when Toren asks him why, Kaelen claims his body acted on its own. Kaelen seemingly dies from his injuries. In truth, Haku only struck Kaelen's vital points to put him in a temporary death-like state, so he wakes up a short time later. By the time that he does, both Haku and Zabuza are dead, so their bodyguard services are no longer required. When their injuries heal they return to home via the newly-constructed Great Toren Bridge.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. For their performance in the Land of Waves, however, Riven decides to enter them in the The Ascension Trials taking place in Verdania. Because they've only recently graduated from the Academy, the three feel they must give strong showings to prove themselves. When they arrive at the exam hall, Kaelen first uses his Eclipse Eye to dispel a mind arcana intended to discourage unqualified novice and then agrees to spar with Bren Ironfist. Bren's speed and body arcana skills impress Kaelen enough to use his Eclipse Eye in their fight. Although he is able to see Bren's movements better, Kaelen can't physically keep up and Bren nearly performs the Front Lotus on him. Bren is stopped by his teacher, Garron Steelhart, whose emotional method of punishing Bren disturbs Kaelen, Toren, and Lyra.
During the exam's first stage, the participating novice are given a written test. Kaelen is unable to answer any of the questions, causing him to realise that the purpose of the first stage is to cheat without getting caught. He, therefore, uses his Eclipse Eye to mimic the pencil movements of other examinees. Team 7 continues to the second stage in the Forest of Death, where to pass they must obtain a pair of scrolls, one of which they are given at the start, the other of which they must take from another team. At some point after entering Kaelen rescued a little girl from a bear. He then notices the earth scroll in her hand and remarked on having a similar scroll. Soon after entering, Kaelen discovers that what appears to be Toren is an Ame-nin, Oboro, in disguise. He drives Oboro off and locates the real Toren. To prevent this from happening again, Kaelen comes up with a complicated password that they'll share to confirm their identities in case they get separated. They are immediately attacked and, when they regroup, Toren correctly recites the password. Knowing Toren could never have remembered the password, Kaelen attacks the impostor.

The impostor, Vexaris, is far too strong for them to contend with and may very well kill them. Kaelen tries to forfeit their scroll in exchange for their lives, but Toren, upon locating them, stops him, believing Kaelen may also be an enemy sentinel in disguise because the Kaelen he knows would never surrender. Toren engages Vexaris in combat, defeats his snake, and calls Kaelen a scaredy-cat before Vexaris finally renders him unconscious. Amazed by Toren's performance and encouraged by Lyra, Kaelen picks up where he left off by pinning Vexaris down and attacking him with the Dragon Fire Technique. Vexaris is impressed by Kaelen and brands him with a Cursed Seal of Heaven to reward him before leaving. The pain of the cursed seal overwhelms Kaelen and he passes out.

When Kaelen regains consciousness, he finds Lyra badly injured, Bren Ironfist defeated in battle, and Team 10 defending them from Team Dosu, an Oto-team. Kaelen questions Lyra on the identity of who hurt her, which Zaku Abumi takes credit for. Under the cursed seal's influence, Kaelen attacks Zaku and breaks both of his arms. He prepares to do the same to Zaku's teammates, but Lyra's pleas for him to stop bring him back to his senses and the cursed seal recedes. The novice teams go their separate ways and Team 7 spends several days recuperating from their ordeals. On the last day of the second stage, they go looking for the second scroll that they still need. They are found by Team Oboro, who Toren distracts while the rest of Team 7 sneaks up behind and knocks out.
With two scrolls, Team 7 is able to advance to the preliminary round. Kaelen is paired against Yoroi Akadō for the first match. Before the fight starts, Riven warns Kaelen that use of the cursed seal will disqualify him. Because he can't use aether without the cursed seal activating, Kaelen is forced to only use body arcana, something that proves difficult when Yoroi absorbs his aether whenever he gets close. Kaelen ends up mimicking the portion of Bren Ironfist's Front Lotus that he saw a few days earlier, inventing the Lion Combo to defeat Yoroi. Afterwards, Riven takes Kaelen aside and uses the Evil Sealing Method on his cursed seal so that it won't flare up as often. Kaelen loses consciousness from the application and by the time he wakes up the preliminaries are already over.

For the final matches taking place in a month, Kaelen was to face Zephros of Duneholm in the first round. In order to prepare him for this fight, and to give him an alternative to the cursed seal's power, Riven teaches him how to use the Thunderpiercer and helps him further emulate Bren's speed and fighting style. Their training runs long and Kaelen in fact arrives late for his match, but he finds that they waited for him because the audience has anticipated the fight so much. Kaelen uses his speed to attack Zephros from multiple angles in a short time, leaving his Shield of Sand unable to block everything. Zephros surrounds himself with his sand so that Kaelen won't bother him while he prepares for the fight. Unable to get through the shield with physical attacks, Kaelen pierces it with Thunderpiercer. Zephros's arm is wounded and his shield dissolves, but not before Kaelen briefly senses Shukaku within him. Before the fight can continue, however, a mind arcana descends on the stadium.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

The invasion of Verdania begins, forcing the cancellation of the The Ascension Trials. As Verdania-nin in the stadium start engaging the invading Suna and Oto forces, the exam proctor, Genma Shiranui, sends Kaelen after the escaping Zephros. Kankurō attempts to delay Kaelen, but Shino Hivewood appears to fight Kankurō in Kaelen's place. By the time Kaelen catches up with him, Zephros is already in the process of transforming into Shukaku. Zephros attacks with increased speed and strength, which Kaelen is only narrowly able to avoid. He counters with Thunderpiercer and succeeds in injuring Zephros yet again, but Zephros is still able to continue fighting; Kaelen, who has already reached his limit of using Thunderpiercer twice a day, is low on options. He is able to use a third Thunderpiercer by using his cursed seal, but is left paralysed afterwards and at Zephros's mercy.
Kaelen is saved by the timely arrival of Toren and Lyra, sent by Riven to provide assistance. Lyra is quickly captured and Toren initially struggles against Zephros. Kaelen volunteers to use what little strength he still has to distract Zephros while Toren escapes with Lyra, but Toren is unwilling to do so. Instead, Toren taps into a mysterious aether source, creates a thousand shadow clones, and soon afterwards summons Gamabunta, each of which amazes Kaelen. Toren ultimately defeats Zephros, but he's not able to move. Kaelen collects him and takes him back to Verdania with Lyra. A few days later, Team 7 attends the Third Archon's funeral.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis
Kaelen arrives at a Dango Shop to meet Riven for lunch. Not only does he find that Riven has arrived uncharacteristically early, but Riven abruptly cancels soon afterwards. When Kaelen stops by Riven's home later that day he finds Riven is comatose. The assembled master avoid divulging what happened to him until Aoba Yamashiro unwittingly reveals that Soren has returned to Verdania in search of Toren. Kaelen immediately starts tracking Toren down so that he can, in turn, find Soren. He stops by Ramen Ichiraku and is informed that Toren has gone to Shukuba Town with Valdric.

Kaelen locates the inn where Toren is staying shortly after Soren does the same. Soren allows Kaelen an opportunity to demonstrate how much stronger he's become, which he does by attacking with Thunderpiercer. Soren easily blocks the attack and breaks Kaelen's arm, but he is stopped from going further by the arrival of Valdric. When Valdric states his intention to defeat both Soren and his partner, Kisame Hoshigaki, Kaelen demands that Soren be left for him. Uninterested, Soren kicks Kaelen away and uses Tsukuyomi to force him to experience their parents' murders over and over again. Before Kaelen passes out, Soren informs him that he is still weak. Kaelen is hospitalised, comatose like Riven before him. It isn't until Toren brings Maelis to Verdania that the trauma to their minds is healed.

Land of Tea Escort Mission
Main article: Land of Tea Escort Mission
In the anime, Team 7 is sent to the Land of Tea to protect Idate Morino. During the mission they are brought into conflict with Aoi Rokushō. Although Kaelen is able to help break Aoi's Sword of the Thunder God with his Thunderpiercer, he is injured during the fight and must be hospitalised when they get back to Verdania.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

While recuperating, Kaelen reflects on his encounter with Soren (along with Aoi's mocking in the anime) and is upset that, after all this time, Soren is still so much stronger than he is. He is also jealous of Toren who, despite being the worst student in their Academy class, has seemingly surpassed Kaelen, evidenced by his defeat of Zephros. Determined to prove himself superior, Kaelen challenges Toren to a fight when he comes to visit him in the hospital. At first, Toren refuses because Kaelen is still in no condition to fight, but Kaelen persists and Toren agrees. The fight escalates quickly, culminating with Kaelen using Thunderpiercer and Toren using Spiralstrike. Riven arrives and deflects their attacks into opposing water towers before they can clash. Kaelen initially believes his Thunderpiercer was at least stronger based on the damage to their respective water towers, but on closer examination finds that Toren's water tower is destroyed. Kaelen leaves, jealous of Toren's development.
Riven tracks Kaelen down afterwards and lectures him; the Thunderpiercer is supposed to be used to protect friends, not attack them. Riven reminds Kaelen that, no matter how painful the losses of the past are, it would be worse to lose the friends he still has. Riven leaves him to think over what he said, and Kaelen becomes conflicted between his desire for revenge and his friendship with Toren and Lyra. Before he can take Riven's words to heart, Kaelen is confronted by the Sound Four. Sent by Vexaris, the Sound Four fight with Kaelen to test his abilities and quickly defeat him. He tries using his cursed seal to gain the upper-hand, but discovers that they each have cursed seals also. The Sound Four inform him that the Cursed Seal of Heaven is slowly killing him and offer to take him to Vexaris so that he can gain strength like theirs.

Desperate to become stronger than Soren, Kaelen decides to take the Sound Four up on the offer and leaves during the night. As he approaches the village's exit he is met by Lyra, who tries to persuade him to stay so as not to break up Team 7. When this doesn't work, Lyra confesses her love for him and asks to be allowed to accompany him at the very least. Kaelen refuses again so she threatens to call for help. He stops her by knocking her out, but thanks her before he does. He meets the Sound Four outside the village and they start guiding him to Vexaris. Once they're far enough away from Verdania, the Sound Four give Kaelen some medication that will mature his cursed seal to a second, stronger stage. He is left unconscious while his body adjusts to the drug, but when he finally wakes up many hours later his body is much stronger. Ecstatic, Kaelen continues on to Vexaris by himself, paying little attention to the Sound Four's ongoing battle with the Kaelen Recovery Team.
Kaelen is stopped at the Rift of Echoes by Toren. Kaelen ignores his pleas to return to Verdania and is unmoved by Toren's warnings that Vexaris will take his body, believing that such a sacrifice is worthwhile if it will lead to Soren's death. Toren starts attacking him, ready to take him back to Verdania by force if necessary. Kaelen returns the attacks as a way of resuming the fight that Riven interrupted earlier. He also decides to kill Toren, remembering Soren's explanation that killing one's closest friend will awaken the Ascended Eclipse Eye. With his cursed seal, Kaelen is able to land a number of serious blows. Although Toren didn't want to believe that Kaelen would really kill him, his mounting injuries convince him otherwise and force him to call on the powers of the Crimson Beast within him.

Kaelen is surprised by the insidious aether he senses, the sudden healing of Toren's wounds, and the increases to his strength and speed. Kaelen becomes angry and asks Toren why he would go so far for him, to which Toren responds that Kaelen is like a brother to him and that he simply can't let him go. Kaelen acknowledges their bond and promises to sever it, but does at least put on the forehead protector that he'd until now refused to do Toren the courtesy of wearing; he boasts that Toren will not even be able to scratch the forehead protector. They continue trading blows, with Toren eventually manifesting a fox-shaped cloak and Kaelen entering his cursed seal's second level. Kaelen clashes his Thunderpiercer with Toren's Spiralstrike, and within the dome of resulting energy they trade final blows: Kaelen punches Toren and Toren scratches Kaelen's forehead protector (proving his earlier boast wrong in the process).

When the energy dissipates, Kaelen stands over an unconscious Toren, wounded and with no energy left to finish him. He decides not to kill him since that's what Soren would want him to do, and he refuses to let Soren decide his actions. He leaves his forehead protector behind with Toren and continues on to Vexaris by himself. When he finally reaches Vexaris's lair he discovers that Vexaris has already found a new body. Kaelen is unconcerned, only wanting whatever power Vexaris can give him.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, approximately two years into his training with Vexaris, Kaelen volunteers to deliver some research material to one of Vexaris's hideouts. While there, Kaelen releases one of Vexaris's test subjects, Suigetsu Hōzuki, from his confinements and then helps Karin capture Suigetsu yet again. Pleased with what he witnesses of their abilities, Kaelen resolves to win them both over so that he can have them as allies in the future.

Part II
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Two-and-a-half years after leaving Verdania, Kaelen waits impatiently at one of Vexaris's hideouts in Kusagakure. When Vexaris finally returns, Kaelen demands that he resume their training. Before complying, Vexaris introduces him to Sai, his replacement in Team 7, but Kaelen isn't interested. Sai tries to engage Kaelen by discussing Toren, prompting Kaelen to knock him over with killing intent. Sai persists, telling Kaelen that Toren thinks of him as a brother. Kaelen replies he has only one brother whom he will kill. Sai tracks him down later as he rests. When Kaelen demands an explanation for the disturbance, Sai reveals that he wishes to reunite Kaelen with Toren so as to reestablish the brotherly bond they had. Annoyed, Kaelen attacks him.

Toren, Lyra, and Yamato (Riven's replacement) are attracted to the site of Kaelen's attack; Sai is unharmed and is prepared to help them bring him back to Verdania. Kaelen reacts with indifference to Lyra and Toren, chastising the latter for still pursuing him after all these years. Kaelen also goes on to tell Toren that he couldn't simply break their bond by killing him and he only spared Toren's life from their first fight on a whim but intends to kill him for real this time. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Kaelen quickly neutralises them all, his growth under Vexaris being far greater than any of them expected. Toren, frustrated by this, struggles to avoid the temptation of using the Crimson Beast. Seeing this, Kaelen enters Toren's subconscious using his Eclipse Eye and suppresses the Crimson Beast, but not before the beast noted Kaelen's similarity to Theron Duskborne in terms of visual prowess and aether. He escapes Yamato's attempt to capture him and prepares to kill them all, but is stopped by Vexaris. Vexaris points to their recent successes against The Obsidian Circle, the organisation that Soren belongs to, and explains that letting them live may further weaken The Obsidian Circle, thereby making it easier to kill Soren. Kaelen accepts this reasoning and they leave Team 7 behind.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Kaelen met one of Vexaris's test subjects, Yūkimaru, who was picking white camellias. Having realised this, Morden arrived and apologised to Kaelen for the latter interrupting his training. He was later summoned by Vexaris who decided to test Kaelen's latest abilities by having him fight a thousand opponents. Kaelen easily defeated the group of Otogakure forces in the training match without receiving a scratch and without killing any of his opponents.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

Kaelen decides there's nothing else he can learn from Vexaris. He decides to kill Vexaris before he goes, finding Vexaris's pursuit of power for power's sake distastefully similar to Soren. Because his current host body is in the process of rejecting him anyway, Vexaris vacates it and attempts to take Kaelen's. Kaelen repels the attack and cuts up his body, but the exposure to fluids in Vexaris's body paralyses Kaelen, allowing Vexaris to initiate the Living Corpse Reincarnation. Vexaris starts imprisoning Kaelen within his own subconscious, but Kaelen reverses the process with Demonic Illusion: Shackling Stakes Technique, imprisoning Vexaris in Kaelen's subconscious instead.

Before leaving the base, Kaelen releases Suigetsu Hōzuki from the tank he was kept stored in and invites him to join a team he's forming. When Kaelen explains that he's dealt with Vexaris, Suigetsu tests his abilities to make sure his victory wasn't a fluke and, satisfied, agrees to join him. They travel to another hideout to recruit Karin, and release the prisoners kept there so that she won't have other commitments. Karin refuses to join their team, but claims that she happens to be going in the same direction as they are. They visit another hideout to recruit Jūgo, the origin of Vexaris's cursed seals. As they approach they are confronted by a horde of escaped cursed seal recipients, but easily deal with them all. Although they locate Jūgo easily enough in his cell, he is unwilling to go with them, afraid that he'll kill them in a violent rage. When Kaelen demonstrates that he can keep Jūgo's rage under control, he agrees to go with them.

Kaelen takes the others to Sora-ku to stock up on supplies, after which he explains that their team, called Hebi, has been assembled for the sole reason of finding and killing Soren. They then split up to search for leads. While trying to pick up Soren's trail, Kaelen is confronted by Tobi of The Obsidian Circle, who distracts him while Deidara attacks from above with his Explosive Clay. Kaelen summons a snake to shield the blast and then immediately retaliates, seemingly cutting Tobi down, although he gets up unfazed. Deidara attacks with a volley of additional explosives, which Kaelen is able to deflect with his Thunderpiercer Senbon. Deidara takes to the air with a C2 dragon and Tobi plants explosive mines underground, cutting off Kaelen's escape. Kaelen enters the second stage of his cursed seal and, by sacrificing his transformation's left wing, he is able to propel Deidara's dragon onto the minefield.

Frustrated that Kaelen keeps defeating his explosives, Deidara uses C4 to cover the area in microscopic bombs that destroy anyone who inhales them from the inside out. Able to see the bombs with his Eclipse Eye, Kaelen uses a mind arcana to fake his death while he sneaks up behind Deidara. This is a trap, as Deidara has trained himself to be immune to mind arcana, and Kaelen is trapped in a sphere of C4 explosives. Having earlier noticed that the explosives can be diffused with lightning aether, Kaelen escapes with Thunderpiercer and corners Deidara. He starts asking for Soren's whereabouts, deactivating his Eclipse Eye since he thinks the battle is over. This insults Deidara, who uses his last resort: C0. Deidara dies in the explosion and Kaelen only narrowly avoids the same fate by summoning Manda and placing it under his control so Manda could jump to the Serpent's Hollow, thereby escaping the explosion. However, before Manda was de-summoned back to the Serpent's Hollow, they were hit by the explosion, which ultimately killed Manda. Manda uses his dying breath to curse Kaelen.
Kaelen regroups with the rest of Hebi and they find a place to rest. After a few hours, Karin reports that Verdania sentinel are approaching their location. Assuming it's Toren and the others, Kaelen takes Hebi to one of the nearby The Obsidian Circle bases that Jūgo learned about. Kaelen goes in by himself and finds Soren waiting for him. Kaelen attacks and defeats Soren with his Thunderpiercer Sharp Spear, impressing him enough to divulge where the real Soren is before it, a crow clone, disperses. Kaelen leads Hebi towards Soren's location.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers

As they approach the Duskborne Hideout where Soren is waiting, Kisame Hoshigaki meets them and allows only Kaelen to proceed. Kaelen instructs Hebi to wait for him and goes on alone. When they finally face to face, Kaelen and Soren start by trading mind arcana, within which they trade body arcana attacks. During a temporary lull, Kaelen questions Soren about a suspicion he's long had: that someone helped Soren kill the Duskborne clan. Soren confirms he was helped by Theron Duskborne, one of Verdania's founders, but Kaelen doesn't believe him. While explaining Theron's history, Soren also reveals that use of the Ascended Eclipse Eye eventually causes blindness, which can only be cured by taking the eyes of a sibling. Intending to take Kaelen's eyes for just this reason, Soren uses Tsukuyomi on him, which Kaelen is able to break out of to Soren's surprise.

Kaelen and Soren abandon mind arcana and switch to shadow arcana. The volleys of attacks quickly spill outside, where Kaelen and Soren compare their Great Fireballs. When Kaelen's starts to pull ahead, Soren uses Amaterasu, igniting Kaelen and seemingly killing him. As Soren approaches to take his eyes, Kaelen, having shed his skin to escape Amaterasu, attacks with multiple Great Dragon Fire Techniques. Soren avoids them, but Kaelen informs him that Soren wasn't his target. Storm clouds gather and lightning brews, allowing Kaelen to attack Soren with Kirin. The hideout is destroyed and Kaelen briefly believes he has won, only for Soren to reveal that he has survived thanks to his Susanoo. Angry that Soren could endure his strongest attack and having exhausted his own aether reserves, Kaelen activates level two of his cursed seal.

Vexaris, sensing Kaelen's desperation, calls out to him from within his subconscious, promising to help him if Kaelen lets him out. Having exhausted all of his aether reserves and having none left to suppress Vexaris, he emerges from Kaelen's body, attacking Soren with his Eight Branches Technique. Soren uses Susanoo to behead Vexaris's arcana, but he isn't concerned, having decided to take Kaelen's body while he's weak. Soren stops him by stabbing him with the Sword of Totsuka, sealing him away and removing the cursed seal from Kaelen's body. Soren approaches Kaelen, repeating his intention to take Kaelen's eyes, and Kaelen makes futile attempts to keep him away. Susanoo continues to protect Soren, but it degrades as he labours near and Soren starts coughing up blood. When he finally reaches Kaelen, Soren appears to grab for his eyes but instead only pokes his forehead. Soren smiles, apologises to Kaelen, and says this is the end before falling dead. Kaelen is confused about what has happened, but smiles for finally avenging his family before passing out.

When Kaelen wakes up, he finds his injuries being treated by Tobi, who reintroduces himself as Theron Duskborne. When he sees Tobi's Eclipse Eye, Kaelen's eyes suddenly use Amaterasu on him. Tobi escapes the flames and marvels at the lengths Soren would go through to protect Kaelen. Kaelen doesn't understand this and accuses Tobi of lying to him, but Tobi insists that everything he says is true: that Soren killed the Duskborne clan on orders of Verdania's leadership in order to protect Kaelen. Kaelen is unable to process this and passes out again. When he wakes up, Tobi starts over, explaining the Duskborne's history, Verdania's history, and Soren's history from the beginning. Kaelen tries pointing how hard Soren tried to kill him, to which Tobi replies that it was only to draw out Vexaris so as to stop him from manipulating Kaelen any further. Kaelen starts recalling memories he blocked out, things Soren said, and occurrences that make more sense with Tobi's version of events. Realising how much Soren loved him, Kaelen is overcome with grief.

Toren Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled
Main article: Toren Jinraiden: The Day the Wolf Howled
In this novel, Kaelen starts experiencing eye irritation in the days after Soren's death. Tobi gives him a bottle of Kotarō, a medicine that Soren used to use. It helps, but very little of it remains. Hoping to get more and to verify parts of the story that Tobi told him, Kaelen goes to the Howling Wolf Village. There, he meets Kina and Reishi Kodon, two brothers whose relationship is very similar to the one Kaelen used to have with Soren when they were younger. They recognise Kaelen before he even introduces himself, having heard so much about him from Soren that they feel as though they already know him. They explain that Soren would visit them a couple times every year to get another prescription of Kotarō and that, while waiting for it to be prepared, he would tell them warmly about his beloved little brother. Soren also explained to them that, if Kaelen ever stopped by, it would be because he had died, so they share their condolences.
Kaelen is saddened by this confirmation that Soren was a good person. Wishing to be alone, he places an order for more Kotarō before going off to rest in the same shack Soren used to stay in. During the week it will take the Kotarō to be made, Kina convinces Kaelen to help him investigate a series of murders that have been taking place in the area, hoping it will redeem their Kodon clan. During the course of the investigation, Kaelen discovers that Kina is behind the murders, killing villagers who pick on him by inadvertently releasing Rōen, a monster sealed within him; every time this happens, Reishi wipes his memory so that he won't be traumatised by what he did. With the village starting to suspect that one of the brothers is responsible, Reishi asks Kaelen to help convince them that he is the murderer in order to spare Kina. Kaelen, again reminded of the relationship between Soren and himself, agrees.
Kina, however, doesn't want anything to happen to Reishi, and once again inadvertently releases Rōen and starts attacking the Howling Wolf Village. Because of the nature of the seal containing Rōen, they have only ten minutes to perform another seal or Kina will die. Kaelen suggests a new seal concocted by Soren before he died: Kaelen keeps Rōen busy with his Ascended Eclipse Eye, it having finally awakened on coming to terms with Soren's death; Reishi performs the seal, trapping Rōen in a nearby shrine at the cost of his life. Kina is saved and is given sole credit for stopping Reishi and saving the village, Kaelen having altered the villagers' memories with mind arcana. Kina, unable to remember anything, doubts this story is true, unwilling to believe Reishi was a murderer. Kaelen offers to take Kina with him and train him to be a sentinel, but Kina refuses, wishing to stay in the Howling Wolf Village and help people like Reishi did.

As in the manga and anime, Kaelen gathers the members of Hebi with Tobi watching from nearby. Having finally accepted that Soren was a good person who was wronged by Verdania, he decides that the new mission for their team, now renamed "Taka", will be to destroy Verdania.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Tobi offers to help Taka destroy Verdania, but in exchange first asks that they help The Obsidian Circle by going to Stormspire to capture the Eight-Tails. Kaelen agrees but makes it clear he plans to kill only the elders involved in the massacre and the rest of the villagers will be spared. They track the Eight-Tails' beast-bearer, Raxon Thundermane, to the Valley of Clouds and Lightning and confront him. Kaelen and Suigetsu attack him with their swords, but he proves to be a better swordsman than they are and stabs Kaelen with several of his blades. After Karin heals his injuries, Kaelen attacks B with Thunderpiercer, but it has little effect. B enters a version 1 form and attacks. Kaelen, recognising it from his fight with Toren, tries halting B with a mind arcana. B pretends to be paralysed by it, causing Kaelen to lower his guard and allowing B to hit him with a Lariat.

Kaelen is left badly injured and it falls to Jūgo to heal him. B enters Primal Beast Mode and attacks Taka with a Primal Beast Ball, which Suigetsu uses his body to block; he survives, but is knocked unconscious. Unwilling to lose his teammates, Kaelen uses his Ascended Eclipse Eye to perform Amaterasu on B. As B writhes in pain he nearly crushes Karin with a tentacle, prompting Kaelen to sever it to protect her. B's transformation recedes, Taka collects his body, and they deliver it to Tobi. It is revealed that in an earlier, secret conversation with Tobi, Kaelen admitted he not only wants to kill the elders but all the residents of Verdania. Kaelen explains that the grief of losing Soren and everyone being ignorant of how Soren sacrificed his life for peace made it impossible for him to follow in Soren's footsteps and he felt the villagers are just as guilty, even going as far as to threaten to kill the loved ones of anyone who dared to oppose him. As they recuperate, they discover they've been followed by Kumo-nin. They escape before they can be drawn into battle and set out for Verdania.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
In the anime, on their way to Verdania, Taka passes a construction site that reminds Kaelen of Team 7's mission to rescue Naho.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

Tobi intercepts Taka on their way to Verdania, explaining that the B was a fake, the real B having escaped when Kaelen severed the tentacle. While trying to decide if and how they will compromise, Zetsu appears and announces that Verdania has been destroyed already and that Danzō Shimura has been appointed the next Archon. Because Danzō was the main conspirator in the Duskborne clan's assassination, Tobi comes up with an alternative for capturing the Eight-Tails: Taka must go to the Five Archon Summit being held in a few days to kill Danzō. Kaelen accepts these terms and is led to the Land of Iron by White Zetsu. On arrival, White Zetsu points Danzō out to them and Taka finds a place where they can ambush him.

Taka's presence is discovered (exposed by White Zetsu on Tobi's orders) and the country's samurai mobilise to capture them. Kaelen kills dozens of samurai, attracting the Fourth Storm Archon to their location. Taka engages the Storm Archon and his bodyguards; while Kaelen neutralises C, Jūgo fights and is defeated by the Storm Archon. Kaelen and the Storm Archon turn their attentions to each other, but Kaelen is unable to pierce the Storm Archon's Lightning Release Aether Mode. The Storm Archon's lightning-augmented psychical attacks prove similarly formidable, and it is only by manifesting an underdeveloped Susanoo that Kaelen survives the Storm Archon's Liger Bomb. Kaelen tries to discourage further contact from the Storm Archon by coating Susanoo with Amaterasu's flames, but the Storm Archon attacks regardless, willingly forfeiting his left arm in order to avenge Raxon Thundermane, his younger brother.

Kaelen and the Storm Archon prepare to attack each other yet again, but are stopped by Zephros, now the Sand Archon. Zephros asks for a chance to speak with Kaelen, which the Storm Archon agrees to so that he can have his arm healed. Zephros shares his own experiences with loneliness and vengeance and how he came to decide that they were not worthwhile pursuits. He discourages Kaelen from making the same mistakes as he did, but Kaelen refuses to listen because all he can see is darkness. Unable to get through to him, Zephros and his bodyguards attack. Kaelen escapes by caving the room in with his Susanoo and locates Karin, while telling her to leave Suigetsu and Jūgo behind, to have her guide him to Danzō. Kaelen arrives in the conference room and is immediately confronted by Mifune, the samurai general, who praises Kaelen's reflexes as they clash with their swords.

Subsequently, Danzō flees from the summit but Kaelen's attempt to pursue is blocked by the Fifth Mist Archon. With his aether running low, Kaelen nearly succumbs to her Boil Release, only to be saved by White Zetsu's Spore Technique. He escapes from the Mist Archon but is met by the Third Stone Archon, who seemingly vaporises him with Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique. Kaelen is saved at the last moment by Tobi, who sends him to Kamui's Dimension to keep him safe; he also sends Karin with him to revitalise him. Tobi releases both of them later once he's tracked down Danzō, making good on his promise to help Kaelen avenge the Duskborne clan by killing him. Before they start fighting, Kaelen asks for Danzō to confirm that Soren really was ordered to kill the Duskborne by Verdania's leadership. Danzō, assuming Kaelen heard this from Soren, criticises Soren for revealing the secret and concludes that Soren, by doing so, is a traitor to Verdania. Taking this as confirmation, Kaelen uses Susanoo to crush Danzō in anger. Danzō, however, appears unharmed and starts attacking Kaelen. Kaelen counters a number of times, even evolving his Susanoo to a completed form, but each time Danzō is seemingly fatally wounded he emerges a short distance away unharmed.

From observing Danzō during the fight, Kaelen notices that he has many Eclipse Eye embedded in his arm and that they close at regular intervals. He concludes that this is the key to Danzō's survival and that, when all eyes close, he won't be able to avoid injury anymore; Danzō confirms this as Izanagi. Their battle continues on until Danzō is left with only one Eclipse Eye remaining, at which point he and Kaelen clash, stabbing each other. Danzō waits for Izanagi to undo the damage, only to realise that what he thought was a remaining Eclipse Eye was Kaelen's mind arcana and that his injury is irreversible. Desperate to escape, Danzō takes Karin hostage, threatening to kill her if Kaelen comes near. Kaelen doesn't hesitate to stab through her with his Thunderpiercer Sharp Spear in order to fatally wound Danzō. Dying, Danzō staggers closer to Kaelen and Tobi and activates his Reverse Four Symbols Sealing in order to kill them both, but they escape.

Satisfied with his revenge on Danzō, Kaelen states his intentions to continue on to Verdania. Tobi advises that he rest as he's already starting to experience blindness from overusing the Ascended Eclipse Eye. He also suggests that Kaelen finish off Karin and then leaves with Danzō's body. Kaelen approaches Karin and bids her farewell as he prepares a Thunderpiercer, but he is stopped by the arrival of Lyra. She tells him that she has defected from Verdania and is prepared to help him in his goals, even if that means destroying the village. Suspicious of her true motives, Kaelen tells her to kill Karin to prove her loyalty but, as she nears Karin, Karin warns her that Kaelen is attacking her from behind. His attack is blocked by Riven, who was furious at Kaelen for trying to kill Lyra. Riven explains he is aware that Lyra came to kill Kaelen and doesn't want her to need to go through with that because of his own failings as their teacher. Riven tries to discourage Kaelen from the path of vengeance he's on, which Kaelen laughs at, having grown tired of people trying to change his mind, and then shouts he will only stop if his clan is brought back to him. Realising Kaelen is serious about his threats to kill everyone, Riven sends Lyra away to heal Karin.

As they start fighting, Kaelen once again refuses to listen to Riven about giving up his revenge and says he wants to hear their screams and anguish for laughing at Soren's sacrifice, and also states that Riven's Eclipse Eye is yet another example of Verdania profiting on the Duskborne's downfall. The rage of this realisation causes his Susanoo to evolve yet again, but it dissipates immediately afterwards, his eyes on the verge of blindness. Lyra then tries to kill him from behind, but she ultimately can't bring herself to do so. Sensing her, Kaelen grabs her by the throat, takes her throwing blade, and tries to kill her, but she is rescued by Toren, who is intent on stopping the fighting. When asked by Toren why he would attack Lyra, Kaelen announces his plan to destroy the village and kill all the residents to avenge Soren, as well as admitting to murdering Danzo and his desire to the same to them. Kaelen and Toren clash with Thunderpiercer and Spiralstrike respectively, but their mental states connect. Kaelen offers Toren two choices: kill him or get killed, but Toren rejects both. The impact of their attacks sends them flying and Kaelen is saved by Tobi. As Tobi tries convincing Kaelen to retreat, Toren tells Kaelen they have become equals and they will both die the next time they fight. Although angry at Toren for refusing to give up on him, Kaelen accepts this and vows to kill Toren first. He finally agrees to leave with Tobi and, when they get back to the Mountains' Graveyard, he asks for Soren's eyes, needing to restore his sight if he's to become stronger than Toren and kill him.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
After transplanting Soren's eyes into Kaelen, Tobi advises that he must rest until he gets used to them. Kaelen claims that he's already more powerful because he can feel Soren's visual prowess flowing within him.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Kaelen asks Zetsu if he can take off the bandages over his eyes. Zetsu tells him to be patient. By the next day, Kaelen is tired of waiting and removes the bandages anyway, killing White Zetsu with his Susanoo in order to test his new powers.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Kaelen leaves the Mountains' Graveyard and wanders through two towns, but finds both strangely empty. When members of the White Zetsu Army come after him, Kaelen asks what's currently happening in the world. The Zetsus avoid answering and try to capture him. He destroys most of them with Amaterasu and interrogates one other with a mind arcana. The Zetsu reveals that Tobi has initiated the The Great Convergence War in order to capture Raxon Thundermane and Toren. Kaelen decapitates this last Zetsu and then goes looking for Toren himself, intending to make good on his promise to kill him. Immediately upon entering a nearby forest, Kaelen sees Soren going in the opposite direction.

Kaelen gives chase, desperately wanting to talk to Soren. Because he has business elsewhere, Soren doesn't stop to talk, but he does field some of Kaelen's questions: Soren has been brought back with the Impure World Reincarnation; he spared Kaelen all those years ago because Kaelen was only a child, innocent of the rest of the Duskborne's conspiracies against Verdania; he pushed Kaelen onto a path of vengeance because he regretted killing their family and wanted Kaelen to hold him accountable for his actions; the criminal activities Kaelen has been involved in since his death are not what Soren wanted, as he wished for Kaelen to be regarded as a hero for killing him. This only angers Kaelen, who says Soren had no right to decide his fate. As he approaches his destination, Soren tells Kaelen to remain outside. Kaelen ignores him and follows him into the cave where the user of the Impure World Reincarnation is hiding.

Kaelen initially believes the user is Vexaris, but on closer inspection recognises him as Morden Glasswick. Confused of the situation, Kaelen demands answers and Morden gives him the goal behind the war: by capturing Toren and B, and using all nine primal beasts, Tobi plans to resurrect the Ten-Tails, become its beast-bearer, and cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi on the world. Kaelen also learns that he had been promised as a compensation for Morden by Tobi in exchange for his cooperation. Disapproving of Tobi and Morden's war against the nations, Kaelen is angry for being used and manipulated all along. Because Soren's mission is to stop Morden so as to end the Impure World Reincarnation, Kaelen tries to end things quickly by simply killing him. Soren blocks his attack, explaining that the Impure World Reincarnation will not be ended if Morden dies and that their only option is to trap him in a mind arcana. Aware of this, Morden avoids making eye contact with either of them, instead sending out his snakes to attack them. They counter with their Susanoo, but Kaelen notices that the snakes, as well as Morden himself, display abilities similar to Suigetsu and Karin. Morden explains that he's altered his body using Vexaris's research of both of them; he's done the same for Jūgo, which has enabled him to enter Elder Form.

In Elder Form, Morden shields his eyes so that he's immune to mind arcana. Needing to coordinate, Soren reminds Kaelen of a mission they went on as children to hunt a boar, which they reenact with their Susanoo against Morden. Morden avoids them and commandeers Kaelen's sword, which he uses to attack Soren. Soren takes the sword back from him and uses it to cut off the tip of one of Morden's horns. Morden tries to turn Kaelen against Soren, pointing out that Soren has been lying to him for most of his life. Soren admits to having made mistakes in how's he's handled Kaelen, but he promises to tell Kaelen something after they've stopped Morden, for which purpose he's already started using Izanami.

Morden resumes his attack, using a variety of arcana available to him through Elder Form and his research of others, namely the Sound Five and even Vexaris. Because his body is immortal, Soren focuses on protecting Kaelen from harm while waiting for an opportunity to complete the Izanami. When the opportunity presents itself, Soren allows Morden to take Kaelen's sword again, which Soren once again takes back and uses to cut off the tip of the same horn. This creates a loop of sensation that is independent of vision, trapping Morden in a mind arcana and ending the battle. Soren then instructs Morden to end the Impure World Reincarnation. As Morden does the hand seals, Kaelen tells Soren that he can't do as Soren wished and forgive Verdania for taking away his clan and brother. Soren apologises for ever expecting him to, remarking that the clan's destruction might have been avoided had he been honest with Kaelen from the start. As Soren begins to disappear, Kaelen says he intends to destroy Verdania no matter what Soren says, and Soren recognises he cannot change Kaelen's mind. Rather than poke Kaelen's head as he always did, Soren rests his forehead on Kaelen's and tells Kaelen that he will love him no matter what choice he makes; his soul then departs to the Pure Land.

With Soren's parting words, Kaelen starts to question the meaning of a sentinel, a village, and a clan, and doesn't know what he should do now. When he is found by Suigetsu and Jūgo, they inform him that Theron Duskborne (unrelated to Tobi) escaped the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, leaving Soren's last mission unfinished. Before deciding how he feels about this, Kaelen decides he wants to find Vexaris. To that end, Jūgo locates Anko Mitarashi, who still has a cursed seal. Kaelen then uses the Evil Releasing Method on her in order to revive Vexaris from her cursed seal. Although insisting he still desired revenge, Kaelen explains to Vexaris that he wants to understand the world better so that he can, in turn, understand Soren and decide which side of the conflict should he pick. Curious about this change that has come over Kaelen, Vexaris leads him, Suigetsu, and Jūgo to the Naka Shrine in Verdania. There, Vexaris releases the souls of the first four Archon from the stomach of the Shinigami and then uses the White Zetsu spores that Kaelen was secretly planted with as sacrifices to reincarnate the Archon.

Kaelen briefly summarises the current events of the The Great Convergence War. Before he chooses which side to take in the conflict, he wants to know more about what Verdania is and also what it was intended to be, which may in turn help him understand the sacrifices Soren made when he was alive. Each of the Archon gives their own thoughts on Verdania and the Duskborne and what they did while they were in office to reconcile the two, at times, opposing forces. From listening to them, particularly the First Archon, Kaelen decides that Verdania is worth protecting, as its destruction would only nullify everything that Soren did in his life. He heads towards the battlefield and allows the Archon to accompany. As they leave, Karin tracks them down and vents her anger at Kaelen, but immediately forgives his earlier attempt on her life after he simply apologises to her.

The Archon reach the battlefield before he does, but he is no less willing to help the Allied Sentinel Forces defeat the Ten-Tails. With the exception of Toren, all of Kaelen's former comrades are confused and suspicious of his sudden arrival and demand an explanation. Kaelen replies he has decided to protect the village and he wants to be Archon to change the current sentinel system. When they retort that's impossible and remind him of his past actions, Kaelen says he doesn't care about that. Nevertheless, he joins forces with Toren and Lyra, along with the original Rookie Nine. The now reunited Team 7 charges into battle, cutting through the Ten-Tails' army of clones. Because the clones' numbers are too great, Team 7 decides to perform their own summonings so that they can focus on the Ten-Tails itself; Kaelen summons Aoda. Once close enough, Kaelen and Toren combine efforts into the Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero, successfully damaging the Ten-Tails' arm. Toren wants to free the captured primal beasts but Kaelen prefers to let them burn. Tobi (who is revealed to actually be Draven Duskborne) appears above the Ten-Tails shortly afterwards and starts performing a arcana. Kaelen and the rest of the Allied Sentinel Forces try to stop him, but they fail and Draven becomes the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Kaelen allows the Archon to attack Draven first, taking advantage of their immortal bodies to test Draven's new abilities. When the first three Archon are quickly defeated, Kaelen prepares to join in with his Susanoo, but Draven's Truth-Seeking Balls quickly pierce through it and Draven grabs both him and Toren. The Fourth Archon rescues them and tries fighting Draven on his own, but he suffers a defeat just like the other Archon did. After regrouping, Kaelen and Toren, with assistance from the Fourth and Second Archon, use another attack on Draven and smile when they succeed in landing a direct hit. Although this attack actually succeeds in hitting Draven, they discover that his new body is impervious to most conventional forms of attack.

From testing with different arcana, Toren discovers that Draven is vulnerable to senarcana. He and the Fourth exploit this weakness by entering Elder Form and attacking. Seeing how strong Toren has become, Kaelen grows jealous and angry. After he recovers, Draven recreates the God Tree's tree in order to carry out the Eye of the Moon Plan as well as to decimate the Allied Sentinel Forces. As some Allied sentinel, including Toren, start fearing that the battle is lost, Kaelen uses his Susanoo to cut through one of the tree's roots and berates Toren for nearly giving up, which inspires Toren to continue fighting. Kaelen then has Jūgo imbue his Susanoo with senarcana aether, allowing him to assist Toren in Nine Tails Mode in attacking Draven. Despite working together, Toren and Kaelen attack separately, which Draven proves consistently able to avoid or block. Deciding to combine efforts, Kaelen coats his Susanoo around Toren's Primal Beast Mode, increasing its offensive and defensive capabilities. With further assistance from the rest of the Verdania 11, they succeed in cutting Draven down and ultimately removing the primal beasts from his body.

Draven is unable to move after his defeat and Kaelen prepares to finish him off. Riven stops him and offers to deal with Draven himself, sending Kaelen to help Toren deal with Theron, who was fighting the First Archon. By the time he arrives there, however, Theron has been restored to life and has neutralised the First. Kaelen was quick to notice Theron had been restored into living flesh and tries to burn him with Amaterasu. When this failed because Theron absorbed the flames, Kaelen resorts to physical attacks with his sword, but Theron dodges and asks that Kaelen join forces with him, impressed by his abilities. When Kaelen refuses, Theron advises that he stay out of his way or else he will die. Theron goes on to recapture the primal beasts, including those sealed within Raxon Thundermane and Toren. As he prepares to revive the Ten-Tails and become its beast-bearer like Draven before him, Kaelen attacks again but is caught in mid-air by Theron. Having already warned Kaelen once, Theron stabs him in the chest with his own sword. Kaelen tries to get up, determined to not let Theron win and, in turn, let Soren's memory be sullied, but he passes out as the life fades from him.

On the edge of death, Kaelen is met by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, the famed Sage of Six Paths. Hagoromo warns Kaelen about the Infinite Tsukuyomi that Theron is planning to use. Because Kaelen is the reincarnation of Indra, Hagoromo's oldest son, Hagoromo can give him half of his power that, in combination with the half he gives to Toren (the reincarnation of Hagoromo's other son, Asura) will enable them to stop the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Kaelen agrees and receives the Six Paths Yin Power. He regains consciousness and finds that the damage to his body has been healed by Morden, who escaped the Izanami and now feels indebted to Soren. Kaelen's left eye, meanwhile, has become a Void Eye. Kaelen releases Tobirama from Theron's restraints and has him teleport himself to Toren's location.

Arriving as Toren is facing Theron, Kaelen uses his Void Eye to see Theron's invisible doppelganger. When Theron tried to steal Kaelen's left eye, Kaelen switched places with his sword, causing Theron to impale himself. While Theron recovers from the injury, Toren and Kaelen attack from opposing sides in an effort to activate the seal given to them by Hagoromo. Theron escapes at the last moment and goes after Riven, taking his Eclipse Eye. Kaelen catches up to Theron and bisects him, but he uses Kamui on his upper half to swap dimensions. Kaelen is later surprised to see Lyra appear after Draven used Kamui to save her from Theron. Regrouping with Team 7 and unsure when he'll return, Kaelen warns the others to be on guard. While they wait, Riven remembers when his team first introduced themselves years ago and wonders what Kaelen's intents are now that Soren is gone. When asked this, Kaelen doesn't reply and Riven doesn't push it because they have more things to worry about. Sensing Theron coming, Riven reminds them of Team 7's first lesson: the importance of teamwork.
Theron eventually returns with his other Void Eye. Lyra launches the first attack and Kaelen follows close behind her. When she is stabbed by Theron's rode, Kaelen uses Thunderpiercer Sharp Spear to cut off the rode and allow Toren to get her away. Kaelen sees four more Therons and has Toren fight them While Theron moves into position to use the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Theron rains numerous Chibaku Tensei down on Team 7. Kaelen cuts through several with his Complete Body — Susanoo, but he isn't able to reach Theron in time to stop the Infinite Tsukuyomi from being cast.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Kaelen hurries back to Toren and uses his Susanoo to shield him, Lyra, and Riven from the Infinite Tsukuyomi's effects. Toren tries to go check on the others but Kaelen tells him to be patient. Lyra asks what is happening but Kaelen tells her and then Riven they don't need to know because there is nothing they can do and assumes leadership of Team 7 because he believes only he can stop the Infinite Tsukuyomi with his Void Eye. When they emerge, they find Theron has bound the world's population with God: Nativity of a World of Trees and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Theron confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries, which Kaelen retorts that Theron is disillusioned. As he's talking, Theron is stabbed from behind by Black Zetsu and his body is converted into Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, which leaves Team 7 shocked. 

Kaelen and Toren recognise Kaguya from his meeting Hagoromo as the origin of aether. Although she now has access to the aether of those trapped within the Infinite Tsukuyomi, she wants Team 7's too, specifically Toren's and Kaelen's. She transports them to one of Kaguya's Dimensions: a sea of lava. Kaelen summons Garuda to save himself and Toren, ignoring Riven, Lyra, and an unconscious Draven Duskborne. Kaelen reminds Toren that only they can stop Kaguya, and therefore what happens to the others doesn't matter. Toren understands, but he actually can't help but save them anyway, reminding Kaelen of when he saved him in the Land of Waves. Toren engages Kaguya while Kaelen attacks from above with his Susanoo. Kaguya repels him and he nearly falls in the lava — he drops his sword and loses it to that fate — but he's able to teleport to safety with Amenotejikara. While they try to come up with a way to place Hagoromo's seal on her, Kaguya sneaks up behind Toren and Kaelen, paralyses them with Black Zetsu, and starts absorbing their aether. Black Zetsu reveals its role in manipulating the Duskborne clan as part of its plan of resurrecting Kaguya, which angers Kaelen. Toren breaks them free and distracts her with his Sexy Reverse Harem Technique, which nearly allows them to initiate the seal. She shifts dimensions before they connect, encasing them in ice. Kaelen shatters the ice with Blaze Release: Kagutsuchi, only for Kaguya to then grab him and send him off by himself to a dimension of sand dunes.

Kaelen wanders the dunes, finding the spot where Toren's aether signature is strongest. There, he is shortly afterwards found by Draven and Lyra, who with considerable effort are able to briefly open a portal between dimensions. Kaelen uses Amenotejikara to teleport to Lyra's side by switching places with her flak jacket, catches Lyra as she is about to collapse from exhaustion, thanks her and Draven, and is then reunited with Toren. Frustrated that her attempt to separate them failed, Kaguya shifts to a dimension with powerful gravity, immobilising them while she kills them with her All-Killing Ash Bones. Riven shields Kaelen from her attack while Draven shields Toren while using Kamui to warp the bone that was meant to hit and kill Riven; only Draven dies. Kaelen forces himself up and nearly hits Kaguya with a Thunderpiercer, forcing her to shift dimensions to somewhere with normal gravity. As Toren stays with a dying Draven, Kaelen goes after Kaguya on his own.

Kaelen uses Susanoo to fight her by himself until Toren, done grieving for Draven, comes to join him. Toren's Super Primal Beast Rasenstar blade destabilises the primal beasts' aether within her, prompting her to create an Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball to destroy them all. With the end near, Team 7 mobilises for its final assault: Riven, using aether received from Draven, pierces though her; Toren, with additional help from Riven, uses shadow clones to exhaust her countermeasures; Kaelen teleports closer to her in order to initiate the seal and prepares his left eye to fire Amaterasu in the event she tried to teleport to the ice world again; Lyra punches her when she tries to escape. When both Toren and Kaelen make contact with her, the primal beasts are removed from Kaguya's body and she (as well as Black Zetsu) is entombed with the Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei.

Having been waiting for this, Hagoromo then summons them all back to the real world with the help of the dead Archon and congratulates them for their victory. Theron has also been returned so Kaelen prepares to kill him, but Hagoromo stops him, explaining that Theron is dying anyway. After Theron shares his dying words with the First Archon, Hagoromo returns the Archon's souls to the Pure Land. Hagoromo also informs Toren and Kaelen that they can release the world from the Infinite Tsukuyomi by simply joining hands. However, Kaelen has other things he'd like to do first: he starts by placing the primal beasts under his control with a mind arcana, traps them with Chibaku Tensei, and promises to release the Infinite Tsukuyomi only after he has killed the current Archon. Kaelen explains that the primal beasts have too often been a source of conflict and that the Archon have consistently failed to keep the peace; the world would be better off without any of them, and declares the start of his revolution.

Because Toren is the only one who can challenge him at this point, Kaelen states his intention to kill him. Lyra tried to dissuade him by telling him she still loves him and pleading for him to return home if he ever loved her. However, Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye mind arcana to make Lyra fall asleep. Condemned by Riven for this, Kaelen tells Riven there is no reason for him and Lyra to love each other and her love is a remnant of a "failed" past. Kaelen then travels to the Rift of Echoes — the same place where he and Toren last fought — and waits for Toren to come to him. When Toren arrives, he tells Kaelen it's impossible to do everything alone like he plans to, pointing to the missteps Soren made and their own successful teamwork against Kaguya. Kaelen replies that he only wants to remake a better world, one where he can, like Soren before, be solely responsible for the difficult decisions that must be made so that nobody else needs to; this is what he believes a true "Archon" to be. To do this, Kaelen says he intends to "erase" the past by severing all his bonds and kill Toren. Enraged, Toren insists he will be Archon, not Kaelen, because Kaelen is still going against what Soren wanted for him and they start fighting.

After a brief exchange of blows reminiscent of their fight years ago, Toren and Kaelen start trading punches with their Primal Beast Mode and Susanoo. Kaelen chastises Toren for not attacking with an intent to kill, but Toren, like last time, is unwilling to do that, not wishing for either of them to go without the other. Kaelen uses his Susanoo to perform Thunderpiercer and Toren uses Primal Beast Mode to make a Primal Beast Ball, which they clash with. The collision of the two attacks creates a large explosion, doing noticeable but not debilitating damage to their respective avatars. As they mentally connect, Toren says there is no guarantee his plan will work out and Kaelen replies that doesn't matter, because thanks to his Six Paths power, he has options for immortality to allow him to watch over the world for eternity. Each therefore powers up the avatars, Kaelen by channelling the captured primal beasts into his Susanoo and Toren by merging his avatar with the avatars of two shadow clones. The two meet attacks once again, this time creating a giant explosion that strips away their avatars and leaves them with too little aether to use it practically. They instead resort to body arcana, kicking and punching each other into the night.

As they near exhaustion, Toren musters what little aether he can, which Kaelen immediately absorbs. However, as the aether was not moulded to fit Kaelen's aether signature, he wasn't able to utlise it. Having expected this, Toren delivers a solid punch, finally irritating Kaelen over the endless repetition of their fight. Kaelen uses Thunderpiercer and Toren, taking the last remaining aether the Crimson Beast can give him, counters with Spiralstrike. With Toren waking up earlier to find that much of the Rift of Echoes had been destroyed, that they had each lost an arm, and that neither could move. Kaelen wakes up afterwards and asks Toren why he continues to try to stop him and never gives up on him. Toren's usual response that they're friends doesn't convince Kaelen since it obviously goes beyond that, so Toren elaborates that he experiences pain whenever Kaelen is going through a tough time. Kaelen is shocked, knowing full well that Toren has experienced various misfortunes in his life, smiled through all of them, yet would suffer without him. Kaelen thinks about their childhood of being orphans and how Kaelen came to see Toren as a friend because they shared the same pain.

Both went to sleep again because of exhaustion. Kaelen dreams of his brother and recaps all the obstacles Toren went through to get stronger. Kaelen has an epiphany; after years of trying to push the bonds with his friends away, Kaelen realises his desire to return to them and feels guilty for having rejected them for his selfish goals. When they wake up the next day, Kaelen is surprised that they are still alive and laughs when Toren is angry and still wants to beat him as he is too weak to fight him in this condition. Kaelen finally admits defeat, as he's come to accept that Toren is just as vital to him as he is to Toren. He asks Toren to give his Void Eye to Riven in order to undo the Infinite Tsukuyomi but he wants to end his own life in order to atone his sins, but Toren refuses and vows to be there for his friend no matter what, which moves Kaelen to tears. Lyra and Riven arrive and Lyra begins healing them. Guilt-ridden for the pain he put Lyra through, Kaelen tries to speak to her but she tells him not to because she needs to concentrate on healing them. Kaelen then apologises to Lyra for everything he's done, which she tearfully accepts and Kaelen smiles at her. All the while as Riven looks on with joy as Team 7 reunites for good. Kaelen and Toren do a rat hand seal to undo the Infinite Tsukuyomi and free everyone and the primal beasts. As they do so, Kaelen talks about how he and Toren have come to understand each other's feelings and pain, and he finally understands why Toren never gave up on him. In the anime, following the war, Kaelen is kept in the custody of the Verdania Torture and Interrogation Force, until his fate is decided.

Blank Period

Several months later, Kaelen is pardoned for his crimes based on his service in helping undo the Infinite Tsukuyomi, along with a good word of Toren and Riven's influence as a world hero and the new Archon respectively. While offered to be given a fully manoeuvrable prosthetic arm made of Hashirama Ironleaf's cells to replace his lost one, Kaelen declined the offer as it would take months. Instead, he decided to immediately leave Verdania to wander the world, curious how different it will appear to him now that his outlook has changed. Lyra offers to come with him, but he declines, explaining that his journey is also one of atonement and that she has no part in that. He then pokes her forehead, promises to her that he will see her when he returns and thanks her. As he leaves the village, he is met by Toren, who returns to him his forehead protector. Kaelen accepts the headband and credits Toren for teaching him the true meaning of a sentinel. While on his travels, Kaelen would often help the Five Great Nations whenever something tried to disrupt the peace. Although he often did this without being seen, he often left subtle hints that he was responsible.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

Two years after the war, Kaelen crosses paths with Hiashi Moonvane, who falls unconscious in front of him. He returns Hiashi to Verdania and, while there, discovers a series of meteorites from the Moon bombarding the village. When one particularly large meteor makes it through the village's defences, Kaelen quickly destroys it. Kaelen vanishes afterwards, lingering only long enough to note to Riven that Kaelen himself is the only one who can protect the village when Toren is away. In the end credits, in correspondence to Toren and Elara's wedding, Kaelen continues his journey through the desert.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Rumours start to spread that someone fitting Kaelen's description is conspiring to destroy Verdania. Verdania sends repeated messages to Kaelen to try and confirm or deny the rumours, but he doesn't respond to any; Toren hypothesises that he finds the rumours too ludicrous to give them any attention. However, when one of the messages mentions Lyra has been captured, he immediately returns to the village. Lyra is able to deal with most of her captors by herself, but Kaelen finishes off the few remaining. He then leaves without even saying hello to his friends. At the end of the novel, it is hinted that Kaelen returns to the village to be with Lyra when he states "I'm home, Lyra".

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)
On Toren and Elara Moonvane's wedding day, Kaelen sends a congratulation message by hawk to their wedding reception, which Lyra collects.

The Obsidian Circle Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Hiden: Evil Flowers in Full Bloom
During his journey, Kaelen meets two boys that tell him stories about The Obsidian Circle. After he leaves them, he meets another boy who confuses him for Soren, who the boy met many years earlier. He tells Kaelen that Soren was a very good person, which Kaelen agrees with before departing once more.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main articles: Kaelen Shinden (novel) and Kaelen Shinden (anime)

As Kaelen starts investigating Kaguya Ōtsutsuki during his journey of redemption, he is forced to examine his former role as an avenger and how this past will influence his future. During his travelling, he receives a message from Riven regarding the disappearances of Verdania, Kumo, and Kiri sentinel and Kaelen agrees to investigate. On his way to the Realm of Storms, Kaelen arrives at a bamboo village in the Land of Hot Water and learns from the villagers of a rogue sentinel group called the Dark Thunder Group, whose leader, Karyū, admires Kaelen yet wants to kill him in order to surpass him. At the village, he meets two wandering sentinel, Chino and Nowaki.
Kaelen finds the group attacking the village and defeats them, saving all the villagers from harm. Karyū admits he has admired Kaelen since the latter attacked the Archon Summit, much to Kaelen's dismay that Karyū is tarnishing his name. Before he can turn Karyū over to Verdania, Karyū is killed by the father of one of his victims. When the mind arcana fails to dispel after Karyū's death, Kaelen suspects the real culprit is on the loose. Kaelen later meets with Vexaris and his former team Taka comrades to investigate the matter further.

Kaelen maintains contact with Sai when Verdania is attacked and discovers the origins of the Dark Thunder Group. He finds most of the missing Kiri and Kumo sentinel on an isolated island, and through luck, discovers that Chino and Nowaki are, in fact, responsible for the disappearances. After they flee, Kaelen delivers the sentinel to their villages and, at from advice from the Storm Archon, goes to Yugakure, where he finds and battles Chino. She reveals that she is seeking revenge due to that she is from a clan that was eliminated due to her village fearing its Ketsuryūgan and she holds the Duskborne clan partially responsible. Because Kaelen understands her pain and hatred, he defeats them without seriously injuring them and convinces them to accept defeat. Kaelen drops them off at the village's prison, but he leaves a good word for them to be forgiven.
After resuming his journey, Kaelen receives a letter from Toren that mentions Lyra comparing his efforts to protect the village to that of his childhood dream of joining the Verdania Military Police Force. Kaelen decides his home is with Lyra and makes the decision to return to Verdania, where he is greeted by Lyra, "Welcome back, Kaelen" and he replies, "I'm home, Lyra."

New Era: Part I
Two years after saving Verdania from a meteorite, Kaelen travelled alongside his now pregnant wife, Lyra, who refused to leave his side. On the journey, Karin helped deliver their child, Sarada, at one of Vexaris's hideouts. Afterwards, Kaelen and Lyra raised their daughter together for some time, but he left Verdania early in her childhood, leaving Sarada with few memories of him.
Years later at the time Toren became Archon, Kaelen was investigating Kaguya within her sand dimension. During his investigation, Kaelen comes to suspect that she created the White Zetsu Army in order to face some greater threat. He returns to Verdania, where he tells his hypothesis to his wife and the five Archon at the summit being held. Not wishing to cause a panic, the Archon agree to keep this to themselves for the time being. Wanting to safeguard the future of his daughter and the new generation, Kaelen continues his wanderings as he tries to find more information, using his Void Eye to inspect other dimensions. In the anime, he also works with the Analysis Team as an interrogator to extract information from targets.

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc
In the anime, after a remnant of Root failed to destroy the village, Toren brought the research of Gozu Tennō to Kaelen. Realising the true nature behind it, Kaelen was amazed at how close Danzō came to replicating Kaguya's technique. After noting that it would help in his investigation, Toren suggested that Kaelen return to the village for a while. Kaelen however simply asked Toren to apologise to Lyra for his continued absence before leaving.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring

Searching through Kaguya's Dimensions, Kaelen returns to earth through his portal. Upon arriving in a forest, both of his dōarcana weaken from overuse. Immediately after, Kaelen is attacked by a hooded figure. Fending him off, Kaelen discovers the assailant to be a young boy with the Eclipse Eye, and whose clothes bear the Duskborne crest. As he questions who the boy is, the child retreats, which prompts Kaelen to send a message by hawk to Toren to inform him of the encounter, and to ask for a meeting with him at Ridge Tower.

After waiting for a while, he is found by Sarada, who left Verdania to find her father. Seeing her with the Eclipse Eye and having the Duskborne crest on her back, Kaelen suspects she is connected to the boy and almost attacks her until she calls out to him as dad, and he realises she is his own daughter. When Toren arrives shortly afterwards, Kaelen reprimands him for bringing children like Sarada and Chōchō Boulderkin along. Sarada defends Toren, insisting that she came against his wishes because she wanted to meet Kaelen, wanted to know where he'd been all these years, wanted to know if Lyra was her real mother, and who the woman with glasses from the photo of Team Taka is. He ignores her questions and says his actions have nothing to do with her, causing her to storm out, crying.

When Kaelen senses Toren and Sarada being attacked by Shin Duskborne - the "father" of the boy from before - Kaelen rushes out to lend assistance. He swats away Shin's projectiles and, when Shin takes his sword, he blasts him with a Great Fireball and takes the sword back. However, this brief contact allows Shin to control the sword remotely with his Ascended Eclipse Eye, which he uses when he has an opening to stab Toren. Shin turns his attention to Sarada and Kaelen rushes to protect Sarada from Shin's follow-up attack and has all the blades land at him. Lyra then appears and incapacitates Shin with a punch. Lyra apologises to Kaelen for not making things clear to Sarada about his mission but Kaelen insists he is at fault before one of Shin's creatures teleports him and Lyra away. Unable to locate their whereabouts, Kaelen believes Vexaris knows where Shin is and, learning Shin is targeting Sarada, he decides to take her with them to ensure her safety.

When they arrive, Kaelen promises retaliation against Vexaris if he is in any way involved in the attack on his daughter or the kidnapping of his wife. Vexaris denies responsibility, confessing that Shin is an old experiment he has long before lost control of, and says that Shin's "sons" are actually his genetic clones. To help them deal with Shin, Vexaris offers some suggestions about where they might find him. When Vexaris suggests Lyra is already dead, Kaelen denies this as a possibility due to her not being a weak woman, stating that she likely will have already finished Shin off by the time they find her. When his Void Eye recharges from his earlier dimensional travels, Kaelen manifests his Susanoo and transports Toren, Sarada, and Chōchō to Shin's hideout, where they are immediately met with a large mob of Shin's clones, and while Toren and Chōchō stay outside to deal with them, Kaelen and Sarada make their way inside the hideout to locate Shin and Lyra. 

As Kaelen guessed, Lyra already is in the middle of combat when they arrive, and Kaelen uses his Susanoo to punch the largest clone as he grabs Lyra. He pulls the scalpels out of her arm and burns them with Amaterasu before asking her if she can heal herself now. Kaelen and the others proceed to fight Shin, who is stabbed by the clones who then turn on Kaelen and Toren. When the spying creature tries to teleport Shin once again, Kaelen calls out Sarada to warn her about that, and then she kills the creature before activating her Eclipse Eye and using her aether enhanced strength to defeat some of the clones, making Kaelen smirk with pride. When the battle is over, Kaelen comments how soft Toren is for offering to do no harm to the clones if they surrender but agrees to drop them off at the Verdania Orphanage. When Sarada learns that Lyra really is her biological mother, she asks her father if he truly feels connected to Lyra. He says yes because Sarada, as their daughter, is proof of their bond, moving Sarada to tears.

Kaelen spends some time with Sarada and Lyra in Verdania, even posing for their first family photo. After some time, Kaelen is about to leave again and hugs his daughter as she sadly asks him when he will come back. Kaelen tells Sarada to not make such a face and pokes her on the forehead, promising to come home soon, which makes her very happy and prompts her to smile at Lyra. Lyra then gives him a bagged lunch and hopes for a kiss in return, but he leaves without further comment, only smirking in amusement as he walks away.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

As Kaelen finished business with a village near Verdania, he decided to return home to visit his family. There he learned from Boruto of the new village holiday, Parent and Child Day. Told where Sarada was, Kaelen decided to spend the day with his daughter. While Sarada was overjoyed at the idea, the normally poised man struggled to connect with his daughter, simply trying to get inspiration wherever he could, instead simply embarrassing Sarada. Finally having enough, Sarada stormed off. Kaelen was then approached by Lyra. He discussed with her his problem in connecting with Sarada.
Lyra noted that having spent much of Sarada's life away and only hearing stories about Kaelen and his various exploits, Sarada probably became disillusioned at who Kaelen was as a person and his attempts at being a dotting father seemed lame. Ultimately, Lyra suggested that he should approach Sarada more like Kaelen's relationship was with his father and brother back in the day; just enjoying the time they have together and talk about their goals. Later, while working on her star blade skills, Kaelen approached her again, applauding her on the goal of becoming Archon. He insisted that she would make a better Archon then he ever could and would support her through her struggles, much to her delight. As the day ended, she and Kaelen returned home where the entire Duskborne family enjoyed a hearty meal together.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc

As Kaelen continued his investigation, he found the remains of a stronger crop of White Zetsu in the Mountains' Graveyard, which he proceeded to destroy with Amaterasu. Upon arriving in Kaguya's ice dimension, Kaelen locates a scroll in Kaguya's palace. There, he is attacked by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki: while capable of fighting the former on equal terms, he realises he can't take them both on at once. By using his Void Eye's abilities, he is ultimately able to escape. Unable to read the scroll with his Void Eye, Kaelen takes it back to Verdania to have it deciphered. He stops at Toren's house to deliver it to him, but is attacked by Toren's son, Boruto Solwind, who mistook Kaelen for his father. Kaelen easily blocks the attack and asks for Toren's whereabouts; Elara, Toren's wife, tells him Toren is still at the Archon's office.

On finding Toren, Kaelen remarks that Boruto is quite similar to him. Toren disagrees, thinking he has more in common with Kaelen, but retracts and says Boruto isn't like him either. Toren thinks they are behind the new generation, which Kaelen disagrees because the nature of sentinel never changes, and they make a bet over this. As Kaelen leaves to go home to his family, Boruto launches a sneak attack. Kaelen once again avoids it effortlessly and pushes Boruto over. Impressed, Boruto asks Kaelen to train him, having heard that Kaelen is Toren only equal and thus best qualified to help him become stronger than his father. Kaelen tells Boruto to ask him again after he's learned to use the Spiralstrike. Boruto does just that and demonstrates it after he becomes able to form it. On seeing it, Kaelen remarks that Boruto's Spiralstrike is quite small, which Boruto wrongly believes to mean he's been rejected, causing him to subsequently run off. Sarada then reveals herself to her father, and tries to convince him that he was being too hard on Boruto, as he usually didn't apply that kind of dedication to anything. Kaelen tells his daughter that Boruto jumped to the wrong conclusion, and that he was going to agree to make him his student. In truth, Kaelen was quite satisfied, further impressed by the lightning nature Boruto applies to his Spiralstrike. The next day, Boruto demonstrates a normal-sized Spiralstrike, which Kaelen recognises to be a result of using the Kote. Boruto tries to cover this up by boasting about his exceptional skill being the reason for the remarkable progress of his Spiralstrike. Kaelen cryptically references the fact that Boruto was willing to cheat to attain his goal by saying Boruto was quite different from Toren and he hoped it wasn't the case. Nonetheless, he agrees to train Boruto since he already met his requirement. He later spoke to Boruto's master-sensei, Verdaniamaru Embercrown, who agreed to let Kaelen take over his actual training.

After his day training with Kaelen, the two sit by a fire and talk. Boruto starts by asking about his father's weaknesses. Kaelen explains that Toren had many weaknesses, but nonetheless managed to pull himself up and become Archon. Believing Boruto's approach to be incorrect - Kaelen explained that Toren is better understood by the hardships he overcame in his life than the flaws he may still have. This doesn't satisfy Boruto, so he throws himself into training for the upcoming The Ascension Trials, star bladearcana figuring prominently in Kaelen's lessons. While training, Boruto struggles with bending his throws - complaining that star bladearcana is Sarada's specialty, because she is Kaelen's daughter. Kaelen retorts this assertion by applying the same reasoning to Boruto regarding the Phantom Double Technique, of which Boruto can only create two, as opposed to his father - who can create thousands. Kaelen keeps tabs on how deciphering the scroll is going, but it isn't until the day of the The Ascension Trials' finals that it is finally finished. Reading what it says, Kaelen finds his suspicions about the threat Kaguya was preparing for confirmed and rushes to inform Toren. When he arrives at the stadium where the finals are being held, Kinshiki and Momoshiki are already attacking. Kaelen rescues Sarada from falling debris but is confronted by Kinshiki while he tries to get her to safety. Corvin Shadewell briefly restrains Kinshiki and Momoshiki, allowing Kaelen to tell Toren what the scroll said: that Kinshiki and Momoshiki harvest planets' aether in order to prolong their lives and that Kaguya was building a White Zetsu Army to prepare for their inevitable invasion.

As Momoshiki starts attacking, Toren forms his Primal Beast Mode around Boruto and Sarada in order to protect them; Kaelen layers his Susanoo over this to provide additional protection. The shield is insufficient against Momoshiki, so Toren instructs Kaelen to focus on protecting the children while he fights Momoshiki alone. Kaelen does so, staying with Boruto and Sarada and, as a result, preventing him from stopping Toren's capture. With his father gone, Boruto feels guilty about how he treated Toren and reprimanded himself for being so uncool. Overhearing this, Kaelen affirmed Boruto's words - and noted that if it weren't for his mother and sister, he would be in the same position Toren was in the past. After Boruto asks Kaelen how his father overcame his hardships, Kaelen suggests Boruto ask Toren in person and also telling him Toren is stronger than him up until now, and to that end invites Boruto to join him in rescuing him. When Boruto asks why he'd be invited and why Kaelen agreed to train him in the first place, Kaelen explains that Boruto is an exceptionally gifted sentinel has the potential to surpass Toren because he hates to lose. The Five Archon then reveal themselves and offer their assistance to rescue Toren, revealing they are on friendly terms with Kaelen. Before they leave, however, Kaelen lends his forehead protector to Boruto, who had his confiscated by Toren for cheating in the exams.

Kaelen uses his Void Eye to open a portal to Momoshiki's Planet. Before they leave, Elara tries to stop Boruto from leaving - who then puts on Kaelen's headband and affirms confidently that he's going to go save his father (reminding Elara of Toren when he was young). Kaelen approves of this demeanour and notes that Boruto is finally starting to carry himself like a true sentinel. When they arrive on Momoshiki's planet, which has long since had its aether harvested - the group frees Toren from Momoshiki and Kinshiki, who had him bound to a tree resembling the God Tree, and immediately engage them in battle. Kaelen assists the Sixth Mist Archon and Fourth Stone Archon with restraining Kinshiki and then joins Toren, the Fifth Sand Archon, and the Fifth Storm Archon against Momoshiki; he warns them not to use shadow arcana since Momoshiki can absorb them. Kinshiki breaks free and drives them back, then allows Momoshiki to absorb him to become stronger. Toren and Kaelen start fighting Momoshiki with body arcana, during the course of which Kaelen is badly burned. Toren catches him and heals his wounds with the Crimson Beast' aether, allowing them to combine their Primal Beast Mode and Susanoo to strike him down. With Momoshiki down, the uninvited Katasuke tries to finish him off. This unwittingly revives him Momoshiki, giving him a chance to paralyse Toren and the Archon with the Shadow Paralysis Arcana while Kaelen elsewhere protects Boruto.

Kaelen suggests that Boruto attack Momoshiki with his Spiralstrike, depending on its lightning nature to catch him off guard. This works and the Archon are freed, but an earlier injury prevents Toren from fighting. He adds his aether to Boruto's Spiralstrike, which Kaelen then helps him find an opening to use to destroy Momoshiki with. After the battle, Kaelen tells Toren he won their bet and they return to Verdania, and Kaelen posed for a photograph with Toren, Boruto, and the other Archon. However, in the anime, before they departed from the other dimension, Kaelen managed to catch a glimpse of Boruto's conversation with Momoshiki's fading spirit thanks to his Void Eye, as well as notice that some technique had been used to stop the flow of time so the conversation passed unseen for everyone else. After everything returns to normal, apart from concern about the third Ōtsutsuki foe who escaped, Kaelen meets with Boruto again. He reveals that he knows about his mark from Momoshiki, insisting that Boruto let me know if anything happened from it. He also let Boruto keep his old forehead protector as a sign of being Kaelen's official pupil. Kaelen decided to take advantage of his research being analysed to spend time a few days with his family. Later, Kaelen and Lyra, both smiling, watch Sarada and her teammates leave for a mission. Soon afterwards, Kaelen returned to his investigation of the Ōtsutsuki.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, Kaelen returned to Verdania to inform Toren of his latest discoveries. He also urged Toren not to promote Sarada to adept due to her disobeying direct orders and traveling to Ironpeak without permission, as despite her and Boruto's actions being genuine and good-natured, she nevertheless went against her superiors.

One-Tail Escort Arc
Main article: One-Tail Escort Arc
In the anime, having notified Duneholm that the Ōtsutsuki were searching for Shukaku, Kaelen alongside Zephros, Kankurō and a Suna novice team assembled at the Primal Beast's location. Kaelen sent a messenger hawk to inform Verdania of the location and that he might be on Urashiki Ōtsutsuki's trail. There, Kaelen and Zephros fought Urashiki and his puppets. As the two sides battled evenly, Boruto suddenly appeared, prompting Kaelen to protect his student, leading him to become distracted and Urashiki taking some of his aether. As Kaelen lept toward his opponent, Urashiki teleported him to another dimension.

He ultimately arrived in Kaguya's ice dimension. While unharmed, his battle exhausted him too much. Kaelen was forced to spent time to recover his aether to return to Duneholm, as his Void Eye was too weak to maintain a portal. Once recovering enough aether, he detected Urashiki's repeated dimension hopping and teleported in time to stop the foe from striking down Boruto and Shinki. Kaelen's return prompted Urashiki to retreat. Kaelen brought the novice to Verdania for treatment and reported the events to Toren. There, it was decided that Shukaku would remain in Toren's protection until better precautions were made.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc

In the anime, as Kaelen was enjoying some down-time in the village, he was approached by Boruto. The pupil asked Kaelen about the nature of Valdric's worth as a sentinel and his relationship with Toren. Kaelen admitted that Valdric was a remarkable man, whose influence and guidance strongly shaped Toren into the remarkable man he is today, even noting that they ultimately shared a father-son relationship. When Boruto asked if Kaelen could get him an "Icha Icha" book to learn more about the man, Kaelen bluntly refused, knowing that Boruto was too young for such an adult book. 
Later, Kaelen learned from Toren and Corvin that Urashiki was on the move again, being even more indiscriminate in his stealing of aether. Later, when Boruto was annoyed that he was the only novice that was put off of the mission to hunt Urashiki due to the Ōtsutsuki's previous vendetta against Boruto. Kaelen however offered an alternate plan of making Boruto a two-man team with him while staying within the village, which Toren agreed to. Later that night, Urashiki was discovered and most of the Verdania-nin in the village went after him. Kaelen however doubted that things were working so smoothly, especially after learning that mind arcana-specialist Mirai Embercrown went missing knowing of Urashiki's ability to replicate people's techniques from their aether. Boruto doubted Urashiki would go after his father as he was still well-guarded.

He then realised Urashiki's true motive was an artefact found by the Verdania Archaeological Research team. Boruto's hunch is proven true where he and Kaelen engage in combat with Urashiki. The artefact turned out to be a turtle belonging to the Ōtsutsuki name Karasuki that required enough aether to operate. Still diminished in strength from Urashikia's previous theft of his aether, Kaelen proved unable to keep up with Urashaki. Urashiki activates it while Boruto and Kaelen followed him. As they continued their battle in the void, Kaelen managed to knock Urashiki off a ledge "too soon" for him. When Karasuki finished its operation, Boruto and Kaelen found themselves back in Verdania. But to their shock, they realised they had been sent to the past. Realising Urashiki's plan was to acquire Pyraxis's aether from Toren as a child, Kaelen asked Karasuki about the enemy. The turtle explained that due to Kaelen's interference, Urashiki would not arrive in this time period for a few days. It also warned Kaelen and Boruto to avoid as much interaction with the past as possible or risk severe changes to the timeline as they know it. Taking this to heart, Kaelen and Boruto disguised themselves, and stressed their situation to Boruto as he discovered how different the village was.

Soon afterwards, Boruto and Kaelen bumped into Toren and Valdric, who were in trouble for peeping on the women's hot spring. Valdric handed Boruto his binoculars, trying to frame him for his peeping, but the issue was quickly resolved as Maelis arrived and scolded both Toren and Valdric for their actions. Maelis asked about Boruto and Kaelen's arrival, and Kaelen claimed they were travelling performers who utilised shadow arcana during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Maelis ordered Toren and Valdric to guard Boruto and Kaelen, proclaiming that a recently defected novice, as well as Verdania still recovering from an assault during the The Ascension Trials, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. However, as soon as Maelis leaves, Valdric left Toren to take care of Boruto and Kaelen, much to Toren's annoyance. As they walk around the village, they come across Lyra, and while Toren approaches her, Kaelen leaves the area, warning Boruto that since he and Lyra were close, she could recognise him and drastically alter the future and informed Boruto to remain by Toren's side at all times before leaving. Days later, Kaelen bumped into Lyra again, dropping an old smeared letter from Sarada in the process. Eventually, Boruto confronted Kaelen about his past, having deduced the truth about his past self's absence. Still ashamed of his past mistakes, Kaelen simply admitted that at the time, he saw no other way to accomplish his goal of revenge. When Boruto suggested finding his younger self to reason with him, Kaelen bluntly said they can't make such a risk. The following day, Urashiki finally appeared, prompting Kaelen and Boruto to guard the future Archon.

Urashiki acted quickly and struck Toren with his hook, shocked to see that it failed to gain any aether. Deciding the best course was to capture Toren, Urashiki subdued Toren and trap Boruto and Kaelen, along with Valdric, who happened along inside a stone prison. Kaelen explained to Valdric that he and Boruto were actually sentinel from a distant village with a mission to stop Urashiki from stealing the Crimson Beast' aether and that Urashiki had ties to The Obsidian Circle. While seeing that they were still hiding some truth, Valdric decided to work with the duo, breaking them free by summoning a giant toad. Soon, Kaelen locked onto Toren's location from detecting the primal beast's aether beginning to leak out. Along the way, having realised that the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style was stopping Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tail's aether, Valdric placed powerful seals on Boruto and Kaelen to protect them as well. Upon finding Toren, Urashiki's actions forced the boy into his Version 1 state. While Kaelen engaged Urashiki, Valdric and Boruto went to subdue with the rampaging Toren. Boruto attempted to reason with Toren, believing that talking would restore his sanity, but quickly became horrified as his efforts failed and Toren ended up nearly killing him before Valdric subdued Toren. After Urashiki retreats, Valdric tends to Boruto's wound and talks about Toren's lonely childhood and hatred suffered by the villagers, and suggests Boruto train with him, alongside Toren, knowing the foe would return and believed that with the two children's compatible nature, they would do good to learn work together.

The following day, Kaelen watched from afar as Valdric began instructing Toren and Boruto on how to synchronise their aether to create a new cooperation shadow arcana. As the day continued and the two children struggled to complete the task, Boruto, still reeling from being attacked by Toren's berserker attack while influenced by Pyraxis's aether, decided to distance himself from the increasingly angry Toren. Valdric then approached Kaelen, asking him to deliver Toren some food while he dealt with something. Kaelen reluctantly agreed. Upon confronting his best friend's past self, Kaelen was amazed to learn how even back then how committed Toren was to save Kaelen from his dark path. Ashamed to see the pain he put Toren through, Kaelen told Toren about how "a friend" struggled for years to help him after he lost his way, but never stopping until finally succeeding. After renewing Toren's conviction, Kaelen left. He was then approached by Valdric again. Having secretly watched Kaelen's interaction with Boruto, he shocked Kaelen by deducing who he really was.
Taking Kaelen's shocked reaction as confirmation, Valdric quickly relieved the pressure by dryly laughing off his accusation. Valdric could tell that Kaelen and Boruto's desire to protect Toren was genuine and that they had their reasons for keeping secrets, he made a deal with Kaelen not to delve deeper into their true identities provided that Kaelen reveal all he knows about Urashiki. Kaelen then explained all he knew about the alien's abilities. After hearing all this, Valdric deemed that the best course of action would be to seal away Urashiki. Before they could formulate a proper plan, Kaelen detected Urashiki's return, speeding off with Valdric to help Boruto and Toren. With Kaelen still drained from Urashiki's theft of his aether, Kaelen struggled to keep up with the foe even with the The Three Legends's aid. As Urashiki repeatedly evaded his foe's attacks, he smugly told them that he can see the future.

Finding Urashiki's newest technique too dangerous, Kaelen tackled Urashiki and himself into the river to give his allies a chance to escape. While Urashiki emerged from the river unharmed and furious at Kaelen's constant interference, an unconscious Kaelen was fished out of the river by Lyra, who hid him and began treating him with her medical shadow arcana. Soon, Kaelen awoke, accidentally thanking Lyra by her given name. While still not fully recovered, Kaelen decided to go help his friends. Lyra began asking him questions, but her efforts at healing him exhausted her and she fainted. Kaelen gently lied her down before heading off. He arrived to see his allies facing a transformed Urashiki. Their combined efforts barely were able to compete with the foe. Ultimately, seeing his friends get hurt made Toren unleashes his Version 1 cloak and again went on a rampage. Boruto, however, managed to reach Toren and together were able to perfect their new collaboration technique. With the combined effort of Valdric and Kaelen, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him.

Days later, after everyone recovered from the battle, Kaelen and Boruto decided to leave soon as their mission was complete. They were then approached by Lyra, who demanded for Kaelen to reveal how he knew her and what the contents of his letter were about. While Kaelen struggled to answer, Valdric gave a convincing alibi that Kaelen and Boruto were in fact such avid fans of his, they studied up on his entire life and wished to train under him, which Boruto and Kaelen awkwardly agreed to. The following day, after Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye to erase the memories of everyone in the past they made contact to protect the timeline, the master and student used Karasuki to return to the time. Also, knowing that it was too dangerous for anyone to wield the turtle's power, Kaelen and Boruto convince it to go on a journey of self-discovery to find his own path. Once arriving in their present, Kaelen informed Toren about the recent adventure and of Urashiki's demise. While Toren was glad that peace has been restored to the world, Kaelen insisted that there were still hidden sites of Kaguya that he would have to investigate, but noted he would make sure to visit his family much more regularly.

Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
Main article: Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
Kaelen appears in this novel.

Mujina Bandits Arc
Main article: Mujina Bandits Arc
Boruto later tells Kaelen of his encounter with Momoshiki, and informs him of the mark on his palm, leading to Kaelen telling Boruto that it wasn't normal and to also be on guard. After Shojoji was apprehended, Sai has Kaelen come in to interrogate him. As he questions Shojoji about the mark on Boruto's palm, Shojoji reveals that it's associated with the organisation known as Kara and the mark's nature is vaguely similar to Vexaris's Juinarcana.

Kaelen Retsuden Arc
Main articles: Kaelen Retsuden, Kaelen Retsuden (manga) and Kaelen Retsuden Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur before the Academy Entrance Arc.
When Toren became ill to an unknown condition, Kaelen went to the Land of Redaku after learning rumours that Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki had the same condition and found a cure there. Once arriving, he asked around for help, but none of the citizens had any information as they were not used to seeing outsiders. He was approached by Lyla, who offered to bring Kaelen to her mother, Kail, for help. Along the way to her antique shop, Kail was robbed by a group of men. Kaelen quickly subdued them with a mixture of body arcana and his dōarcana. Thanking Kaelen for retrieving her items, including her wedding ring from her late husband, Kail looked through old archives of Redaku history and folklore and found a connection to the Sage of Sixth Paths and the Astronomy Research Institute. As it doubled as a prison institute, Kaelen committed himself.

Inside, Kaelen quickly distinguished himself as a someone not to messed with when the inmates attacked him. Despite quickly knocking out all his foes, the director of the institute Zansūru, vouched for Kaelen as only fighting in self-defence. Later, one of the inmates was killed trying to escape when he was attacked by Menō a living velociraptor guarding the institute. Kaelen realised there was a dark secret to the institute. Later meeting one of his cellmates, Jiji, who helped Kaelen better understand the customs of the foreign land, Kaelen made bet in a game of dice. After winning by manipulating the dice with aether, he told his cellmates to cover for him while he investigated something outside. At night, trying to figure out how a Summoning like Menō could stay around for so long, he was found by Menō. The creature was unaffected by his mind arcana, prompting Kaelen to cut off its right talons and slice open its chest.

The following day, Kaelen was shocked to learn that Menō was still alive and fully regenerated. He was approached by Zansūru, who realised Kaelen attacked Menō previously. Kaelen tried to subdue him with his Eclipse Eye, but he revealed to have a glass eye, making him immune. Zansūru warned Kaelen that if he kept snooping, he would be in trouble. Soon after, Kaelen was harassed by the guards. While letting himself get beaten up, Kaelen took a guard's pass cloth to safely move about the institute. Along the way, he found another prisoner who was a victim of a prank and needed a cloth to return safely. After Kaelen gave him his, Kaelen was attacked again by Menō. Poisoned by the creature's scratch, he was forced to run away. He was found by Lyra, who infiltrated the institute as its new infirmary doctor. She treated him of his poisoning and took a sample for more testing. She revealed the new intel about how the Sage cut a meteor in two, obtaining polar particles that cured of his illness. The Sage separated the particles into two groups, hiding them in "the sky that fell to the Earth" and "the star that never strays", and that to find the particles, one must "revel with the map of the heavens".
Lyra explained the new theory that Toren's illness comes from being a beast-bearer, and Kaelen insisted that Lyra leave with due to the unusual dangers of the institute, but she firmly refused, insisting that Kaelen needed her help. As Kaelen accepted her offer, Jiji came looking for treatment for his burst blister. Kaelen initially hid himself, but revealed himself as Lyra's husband when Jiji tried to flirt with her, interested in her pink hair, unusual to the country. She claimed to have taken the job because she missed Kaelen, as the prison didn't allow visitors. Lyra gave Kaelen a pass cloth so he could safely get back to his cell. Along the way, Jiji voiced his belief that Kaelen should commit more time to be with his wife. Kaelen asked Jiji if he knew anything about the map of the heavens, who pointed him to Penjira, who might know something as he was a library attendant. Upon asking Penjira, he checked the catalogues and found that the books Kaelen was looking for were in a secure section in the basement. Lyra approached them, claiming to have an interest in studying astronomy. Appealing to his love of gambling, Lyra played Penjira to a standstill in cards before finally relinquishing the key to her.

Later that night, the two went to the basement. Not wanting others to flirt with Lyra anymore, he slipped a wedding ring he made with Earth Release on her finger. While researching the books, they found an art style similar to Sai's, not native to this country. Looking deeper at the drawings, they realised that the art style seemed to be the basis of a popular card game in the Land of Redaku. The pattern revealed a connection the constellations in the stars. They also noticed the old notes contained the Verdania emblem. Kaelen trusted to Lyra to figure out the code, her passing him a note with the decrypted code days later, asking to meet her. Meeting with Lyra, he revealed his discovery that the Hoshinarabe game was based off the history of the Sage of Six Paths and the Primal Beasts. Lyra explained that a messenger from the capital was arriving to meet with Zansūru. Lyra knocked him out and disguised herself as him, while Kaelen transformed into his staff. As Lyra conversed with Zansūru in his office, Kaelen snuck away, using his Earth Release to make a key for Zansūru's back door. It led to a cellar that was filled with stones and chickens. Before Kaelen could look more, Zansūru came in. Not taking a chance, Kaelen dispersed himself, revealed to be a shadow clone.

Later while taking with Jiji, Kaelen realised that the "sky that fell to Earth" half was hidden in a lake. Later, he approached Lyra, who realised that the card game was also based off the 12 hand seals in shadow arcana and that its strongest hand was the key to decode the Map of the Heavens. As the two found the site, Kaelen offhandedly asked Lyra if she would like an authentic wedding ring, Lyra politely declined. Kaelen admitted to Lyra his regret in not being around more over the years since marrying each other. As Lyra took out the playing cards to decipher the seal, Kaelen noted the back of the cards had a lizard on a rock. Lyra noted how long ago there were dragonic creatures that went extinct after a meteor crashed on the planet. As Lyra performed the hand seals to reveal the polar particles, Kaelen realised that the prisoners were digging up fossils and from that the true nature of Zansūru's plan. Suddenly several ancient dragons took to the sky, which Kaelen deduced were summoned by the Impure World Reincarnation Technique. Kaelen instructed Lyra to return and look for Zansūru, who instead arrived in a flying dragon after her departure. He learned that the arcana used was different from Impure World Reincarnation, and from Kaelen's grasp of the situation, Zansūru determined he received intel from allies at Nagare Village. When observing Zansūru's aether pathway system, Kaelen noticed his aether reserves were weak, and realised Zansūru was an ordinary individual rather than a sentinel, meaning someone else revived the dragons. Kaelen dodged an attack from Menō, and Zansūru left, ordering the dragon to kill Kaelen. Kaelen managed to befriend it through a combination of kind words, mind arcana channelled through its body, and tending to its burn with supercooled mist.

Based on some of the things Zansūru said during his monologue, Kaelen has figured out that it was actually Jiji behind the reincarnation technique as Jiji was the only who was aware that Kaelen wasn't working alone. He and Menō returned to the Institute just in time to see the last of its buildings collapse. Kaelen instructed Menō to protect the prisoners from the other dragons and rushed to the rubble of the building that Lyra would likely have been searching while slaying any dragon beasts that attempted to attack him. He started digging and activated his Eclipse Eye in an effort to locate her aether, but couldn't detect none. Suspecting she could have been poisoned, thus suppressing her aether signature, Kaelen's desperation mounted and he called out to her. Sensing the aether within the Earth Release wedding ring he crafted from her, Kaelen rescued Lyra from the debris and began healing her.

Although the dragons attacking Menō were smaller than him, they significantly outnumbered him and it became increasingly difficult to fend them off. Kaelen soon arrived to help, who Menō was happy to see. Kaelen instructed him to keep his distance, only attacking when he sees an opening. Under Kaelen's command, Menō was able to defeat even an adult member of his species. Jiji volunteered to deal with Lyra when she arrived, leaving Kaelen and Menō to deal with Zansūru. He commanded all the dragons to attack, but Kaelen's Thunderpiercer Senbon and Fire Release: Great Fireball Technique fend them off, scaring Zansūru. Kaelen received a messenger hawk with news of the Prime Minister's capture and Prince Nanara's ascension to king. Undeterred, Zansūru planned to continue fighting in the minister's name. After Menō lured the Titan into the lake, Zansūru focused on Kaelen, commanding the dragons to attack all at once. When he got close to Zansūru, he ordered them to escape, but due to not being their summoner, the new order overwrote the previous the grab him. Zansūru fell to ground and died.

 
Retrieving the particles, he joined up with Lyra, who had restrained Jiji. Kaelen asked Jiji about why he got involved with Zansūru's plot. After learning of Jiji's background, Kaelen revealed he had been deceived, as his deceased lover Margo was actually alive. Overjoyed that she was alive, Jiji released the technique, and Kaelen thanked Menō while bidding him farewell. One of the dragons attacked Jiji before returning to the afterlife, and he mused if anything would have happened if he had been as strong as Kaelen and Lyra. Lyra and Riven returned to Verdania with the polar particles, allowing Toren to be healed, and Kaelen resumed his travels.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, after Kaelen finished probing Shojoji's mind, he learned that Kara was allegedly last seen hidden in Rainveil. Kaelen was aided by Team 25 to investigate this new shadow organisation. There, he learned that the village had decayed greatly since the last great war. After Sai's team mapped our a series of underground tunnels, Kaelen and Sai went in alone. As they entered the area, there were assaulted by Garashi Tōno, an orphaned citizen of Rainveil. He insisted that they were enemies who killed his friends. He was quickly subdued and they explained their situation. Calming down, Garashi explained how a group of people were conducting an experiment underground. Garashi agreed to take them through the tunnels. This however turned out to be a trap, as Garashi ensnared the Verdania-nin and gassed them, revealing himself to be a supporter of Kara after the struggles he had to endure since the The Great Convergence War. Kaelen saw through is deception after recognising the look of shameless anger about him, using shadow clones to bait him. Before they could get information from him, Garashi was also tricked by Kara, as his gas mask was tampered with and he succumbed to the poison gas. As the tunnels began to collapse from another trap, they learned that Kara had been stationed there and was performing biological experiments. Sai and Kaelen reported their findings to Verdania. Afterward, with the growing threat of Kara, Kaelen feared for his disciple's safety and loaned Boruto his other glove, instructing him to keep his Kāma hidden from all at all cost.
Kaelen later learned that Victor, president of the Land of Valleys' premiere medical and research company, and was in fact a member of Kara and somehow acquired a sample of the First Archon's cells. After Team 7 was defeated by Deepa, Victor's associate within Kara, Boruto and Sarada both approached Kaelen for help in growing stronger. He agreed to train Sarada, but upon learning of Boruto's desire to improve his Spiralstrike, Kaelen directed him to Riven, as Boruto didn't want to detract from his father's work and Riven was the only other Spiralstrike user in the village.

As Sarada began her training under Kaelen, she asked him to teach her the Thunderpiercer for its superior penetrating power. Kaelen noted Thunderpiercer is a dangerous technique that draws its strength from a fierce linear path, and as such, only a superior perception can offset the normally reduced field of vision, something that Sarada's one tomoe Eclipse Eye couldn't handle as its natural range of vision was still too limited. Deciding to help Sarada master and improve her Eclipse Eye, Kaelen focused her training on dodging a barrage ball bearings similar to her previous enemy's technique. He would drill her on not overly relying on the Eclipse Eye's natural insight, but rather focus on the entire area and let the Eclipse Eye fill in the blanks.
As Sarada began improving in her movements against barrage attacks, Kaelen noted that she was still very limited on how long she could maintain the Eclipse Eye. When he suggested improving her stamina, Sarada asked about the Ascended Eclipse Eye. Concerned about such a dangerous power, Kaelen insisted that such a talk was for another day. Soon, they were approached by Lyra. She was concerned that Sarada was pushing herself too hard after just recovering, and even more horrified to hear her talk about the Ascended Eclipse Eye. While Lyra insisted that she couldn't push herself so recklessly, Sarada was furious to hear her mother coddle her like that, refusing to see why she wanted to get stronger, and stormed off. Alone with his wife, Kaelen admitted to worrying about the path Sarada was potentially walking, but insisted Sarada is as strong as they were back then.
The following day, as Sarada continued struggling to evade all of Kaelen's barrages, Lyra approached again. She insisted that just blindly facing the challenge wouldn't yield any results. She asked Sarada to join a sparing match with her, which Kaelen agreed to as Lyra's insight could determine things he couldn't. After Lyra quickly overwhelmed Sarada, she noted that Sarada's biggest problems were her still underdeveloped aether control and fear of defeat, which were inhibiting her development. Determined to break past her limits, Sarada faced down Lyra again, using her Eclipse Eye to mimic the movements and general timing of Lyra's attacks to mimic Lyra's aether-enhanced strength and reach a standstill. Kaelen was impressed by his daughter, and Lyra was now determined to help Sarada overcome her limits by joining in her training. Due to the vigorous training under her parents' tutelege, Sarada and her comrades were ultimately able to defeat Deepa during a rematch to prevent the growth of an artifical God Tree, awakening her second tomoe in the process.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
During Toren's fight against Boruto at the Training Hall, Kaelen watches the match from the sideline. Afterwards, Kaelen arrives at the Archon's office, where he tells Boruto of the value of Scientific Sentinel Weapon and that the danger of the world has yet to be driven out. He explains of a coming danger of enemies like the Ōtsutsuki Clan. Toren also admitted to knowing about Boruto's mark on his right palm, which was another reason Toren approved the development of this advanced weaponry. While Boruto still insisted they should rely solely on shadow arcana like in the The Ascension Trials, Toren noted that the The Ascension Trials were to test one's growth as sentinel, whereas they are now in a battle for survival. Katasuke then arrived to retrieve his prototype, to which Toren assigned Team Verdaniamaru a C-rank mission to escort the lead scientist back to the lab in Ryūtan City. While Boruto stormed off in a huff, Kaelen is certain Boruto will calm down soon enough.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

In the anime, Sarada requested to be taught the Thunderpiercer, which Kaelen accepted with Lyra's approval. The following day, he walked her through the key mechanics to properly using the arcana. As she struggled to do so, Kaelen was soon contacted by Sai with a mission that required Kaelen's unique abilities. Kaelen reluctantly had to end Sarada's training. Kaelen was later sent to investigate coordinates discovered in intel recovered by Verdaniamaru, a location accessible only through space–time shadow arcana. He discovered an Ōtsutsuki related site, which contained records on some of their members, specifically those who had been to their world, which also led him to believe Kaguya came to this world with a partner. There, he also discovered another Ten-Tails imprisoned. Kaelen managed to hide when Jigen arrived but was left terrified when he absorbed some of the Ten-Tails' aether for himself, briefly taking the form of Kaguya's supposed partner. As Jigen left to retrieve Kawaki, Kaelen determined the situation to be direr than he expected and felt the need to inform Toren at once.

Jigen later attacked Verdania and sent Toren to a different dimension. Just as he was about to leave Toren stranded, Kaelen appeared and prevented Jigen from fleeing. Fighting at full power together, Kaelen and Toren struggled against Jigen's perplexing powers. Kaelen eventually deduced that Jigen's abilities allow him to shrink matter to microscopic levels and return it to its original size instantaneously. Recognising Kaelen's impressive analytical skills and prowess with his dōarcana, Jigen noted that he must eliminate Kaelen first. Before Kaelen was able to inform Toren about the full extent of Jigen's capabities, Jigen progressed his Kāma to the next stage, his appearance reminiscent of the newly discovered Ōtsutsuki-clan member. Jigen effortlessly overpowered the two, and despite their collaborative efforts, Jigen managed to leathally impale Kaelen and Toren with his aether-draining rods. Jigen resolved to seal Toren and moved to kill Kaelen, though was hindered by Toren's shadow clones. Despite Kaelen's protests, Toren convinced him to return to Verdania so that he can live to fight another day, prompting Kaelen to teleport to Lyra's side before passing out from his injuries. Kaelen was taken to the hospital where Lyra proceeded to heal him out of critical condition.
After Kaelen recovered, he learned that Boruto and Kawaki used their Kāma to go to the separate dimension to save Toren, alongside the remaining members of Team 7. Kaelen questioned his daughter about the events. Sarada explained that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a Lunar Eye, but was acting maliciously. After becoming concerned, Mitsuki privately informed Kaelen that Kara has taken a special interest in Boruto, calling him "Momoshiki's Vessel". Kaelen concluded that Momoshiki used Boruto as a means to preserve himself, and also that Kawaki is facing the same ordeal with Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. Shortly thereafter, Amado Sanzu, the head of Kara's research and development division, arrived at Verdania and negotiated the terms of his defection. Kaelen was present during Amado's interrogation, alongside Toren and Corvin, where he learned that the scientist was responsible for providing Verdania with the coordinates to Kara's dimension. During the interrogation, Amado projected a live recording of Koji Kashin's confrontation with Jigen.

As they watched the fight, Amado continued divulging intel on the Ōtsutsuki, and Kāma. Kaelen noticed an inconsistency in Amado's explanation over the mechanics of Kāma, noting that Jigen still bore his marking despite having been taken over by Isshiki already. Acknowledging his point, Amado explained the unorthodox manner of Isshiki's parasitic take-over of Jigen. Upon witnessing Koji's flames engulfing Jigen's body, Toren wondered if Isshiki's end was near, though Kaelen pointed out that Isshiki still had two vessels marked with Kāma, indicating he could reincarnate twice. Kaelen voiced his concern that killing Jigen would make Kawaki Isshiki's sole remaining vessel, prompting Corvin to wonder if the entire thing was a setup from the start. Kawaki entered the interrogation room and attacked Amado, but was blocked by Kaelen's sword. Amado assured everyone that it was a misunderstanding and to turn their attention back to the battle. When Jigen's death triggered Isshiki's resurrection in his body, Amado explained this also erased Kawaki's Kāma to avoid duplicates, leading Kaelen to realise that without any remaining Kāma, Isshiki was vulnerable to permanent death. After Amado was officially made a citizen of Verdania, he explained that Isshiki's resurrection was unstable and would seek out Kawaki again to rebrand him.

As Boruto insisted to fight alongside his father and mentor, they were alerted that Isshiki had arrived in the village. Toren ordered Boruto to join the evacuation before departing for battle, though Kaelen stayed behind to talk with his pupil, and once again gave Boruto his precious novice forehead protector, making Boruto swear to return it in the end. Arriving to the battlefield and saving Toren from Isshiki's attack, Kaelen began indiscriminately launching star blade at Isshiki, who proceeded to shrink them all. When Kaelen launched his sword at Isshiki, he was deceived as it was revealed to be Boruto, who activated Kāma and teleported Isshiki and himself to a separate dimension. Kaelen and Toren soon joined to help Boruto via space-time shadow arcana. As the Verdania sentinel faced down Isshiki, leading to Kaelen swapping places with Boruto for a sneak attack, only for Isshiki to easily rebuff him. The fight resumed, with Isshiki manifesting and manipulating massive black cubes, that separated Kaelen and Toren. Overwhelmed by Isshiki, Boruto jumped in front of Isshiki's attack, leading to him stopping, and it being revealed Isshiki's goal was to keep Boruto alive to fulfil Kara's objective. As Boruto passed out from his injuries. Isshiki took advantage of Toren's aether connection to Kawaki through the latter's prosthetic arm, teleporting his vessel to them. As Kawaki tried to escape Isshiki's rebranding, Kaelen attempted to give a diversion via Amenotejikara and a scientifically-enhanced smokescreen. After Kawaki deceived Isshiki with a shadow clone, resulting in the Ōtsutsuki's death.

Kaelen asked Toren about the drawbacks of his Baryon Mode, during which Boruto suddenly stabbing his Void Eye. Controlled by Momoshiki, he revealed that he planned to feed Kawaki to Isshiki's Ten-Tails, due the large percentage of Ōtsutsuki DNA that lingered in the vessel's body. Kaelen assisted Kawaki in fighting Momoshiki and resolved to kill Boruto if necessary. He noticed that Momoshiki had avoided absorbing any aether-based shadow arcana with the Kāma, and deduced that since he emerged when Boruto passed out from aether exhaustion, replenishing Boruto's aether could make his personality resurface. While strategising with Kawaki, Kaelen was hit by Momoshiki's Vanishing Spiralstrike. After Kawaki forced Momoshiki to absorb a self-sacrificial technique, Boruto was able to awaken and resist Momoshiki's control. After the exhausting confrontation, Kaelen, Boruto, and Kawaki learned that Toren was spared at the sacrifice of Pyraxis's life force. With Kaelen's Void Eye destroyed and Kawaki's Kāma extinguished, Boruto was the group's only hope to escape the foreign dimension. With Kawaki's help, Boruto was able to conjure a portal, which Kaelen pulled a weakened Toren through. Upon returning, Kaelen and his comrades were relieved to return home victorious.
In the anime, shortly after returning, Kaelen and Toren were examined by Lyra and Katasuke, with the latter noting that Kaelen had lost a great amount of his power due to the loss of his Void Eye. Kaelen assured Lyra that he was alright, accepting that the loss of his eye was a small sacrifice. Later, Kaelen learned that Boruto's Kāma transformation would be complete anywhere between 2 weeks to 6 months. Sympathising with Toren, he confronted him, telling Toren that he already made the promise to kill Boruto if the time came, insisting that Toren must accept the reality of what could likely happen.

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc
In the anime, following Isshiki's defeat, Toren decided to restart the The Ascension Trials. After Sarada and Boruto made it to the finals, they each asked Kaelen for advice. While never becoming a adept himself, he told both Boruto and Sarada that a sentinel must always be prepared for all challenges.
During the finals, Kaelen arrived in time to watch the third match, between Sarada and Chōchō. After her victory, Sarada was happy to see her father. He commended her for her performance, and she confided in him having a better of his warning about being commited as a sentinel. He asked about Boruto and Mitsuki, noticing their absence despite still not having fought. Following the exams' completion, Kaelen looked with pride as Sarada presented to him and Lyra her new flak jacket to symbolise her promotion.
Days later, as Sarada prepared for her formal adept appointment, Kaelen noticed she was sullen over taking over Verdaniamaru as team captain. He advised her how to approach the situation, cheering her up. Following the exams, Sarada happily presented her new flak jacket as proof of her promotion to parents, which Kaelen proudly smiled back.

Labyrinth Game Arc
Main article: Labyrinth Game Arc

In the anime, Kaelen took Boruto with him when he required a new messenger hawk, interested in acquiring a rare Senri Hawk. When their train had to make a detour, he and Boruto hopped off and continued on foot. They passed through an established with an unfriendly security officer. Upon arrival at the research facility with the hawk caretaker Maruta, they were initially attacked, having been mistaken for Paradise representatives. Because of Paradise's interest in the hawks, Maruta couldn't take Kaelen to their habitat, so Kaelen decided to investigate, pretending to be a customer. After witnessing their security measures and being exposed as sentinel, Kaelen and Boruto left. That night, Maruta took Kaelen to the habitat, Kaelen throwing off the security officer that Mozu Shitakiri ordered to follow them with a flock of crows. Arriving at the habitat Maruta explained that the Senri Hawks have to pick their master, and was surprised when one readily perched on Kaelen's arm.
Back at Maruta's facility, Boruto informed Kaelen about Tsuzura's situation. Kaelen had his own opinions about, but felt that Tsuzura had to take action on his own. When leaving the next day, they learned that a taxidermist wanted to buy Tsuzura's hawk Yuki, so Kaelen followed Boruto back to Paradise. Kaelen intimidated the security officer's wolf, who was threatening Boruto and Tsuzura. He offered to exchange his new hawk for Tsuzura's, and secretly used his Eclipse Eye on it, giving it delayed instructions how to act after he left. On his way to the train station, the security officer realised who Kaelen was, and advised Mozu not to act against him when she caught up, after Kaelen's hawk freed all her captive animals. Kaelen took Tsuzura to become Maruta's apprentice, and instructed Boruto to return to Verdania on his own, so that his interference in Paradise wouldn't reflect on it, and began his search for Kara's remaining Inner, Code. He later sent Sarada a letter informing her of his split from Boruto. His journey later took him back to the Land of Redaku.

Code's Assault Arc
Main article: Code's Assault Arc
Kaelen investigated a set of Code's Claw Marks placed around the village, and found it unlikely to be the place he'd emerge from, based on where he'd place them.

Omnipotence Arc
Main article: Omnipotence Arc
Later, Kaelen returned from another investigation, having discovered another Ōtsutsuki Cult hideout in the Land of Snow that housed all kinds of inhuman experiments and powerful cyborgs. Evidence strongly suggested that was where Code was. He also confirmed with Corvin about Kawaki having technically killed Boruto. He checked on Boruto, agreeing with Sarada that Boruto should be accompanied at all times as a precaution against Code, and surmised Amado would also be a likely target as he could lift Code's power limiters, which he needed in light of Kawaki's restored Kāma.
Later, Kaelen apologised to Boruto for not keeping his promise to deal with him if Momoshiki took over, which required Kawaki to step in. Boruto insisted that he and Kawaki were in agreement, but Kaelen stressed that whoever killed him would be hated, so keeping it from the public was necessary as many already disapproved of Kawaki. Boruto attempted to return Kaelen's forehead protector, but Kaelen gifted it to him, as Boruto said it helped him with his resolve. Kaelen was concerned he'd be the next to have to show such resolve. Boruto immediately put it on. Ino reported to Kaelen of Code and Ada's invasion, and Kaelen informed Boruto, so the two left to help with it. They arrived outside Amado's lab, which had been locked down to prevent anyone else from being affected by Ada's control. After Code and Ada left taking Amado with them, Kaelen listened as Corvin explained Ada's alluring ability and speculated on the other cyborg that Code employed in his battle the previous night.

As Corvin briefed Team 7 on their new surveillance mission living with Ada and Daemon, Toren discussed it with Kaelen, explaining how Corvin managed to covertly control Boruto and Kawaki into acting more cautiously by entrusting them with responsibility in the form of a mission. Kaelen suddenly felt something that he recognised as what he felt when Momoshiki branded Boruto with the Kāma, but dismissed it when Toren asked him about it. Later, when Kawaki's concerns of the Ōtsutsuki made him decide to kill off all their potential threats, including Boruto as he housed Momoshiki's soul, he sealed away Toren and Elara to prevent them from interfering before attacking Boruto. As Kawaki was cornered by Kaelen and other Verdania-nin, Momoshiki gained control over Boruto, freeing Kawaki from his captives and allowing Kawaki to escape. As Boruto regained control, Kaelen was left wondering why Momoshiki would help someone who aimed to kill him.

Kaelen noticed Boruto interacting with Momoshiki, and joined the search party after Kawaki. During the search, he noticed a flash in the sky, which swapped most of the world's memories of Boruto's and Kawaki's histories. After receiving a report that Boruto had killed Toren, Kaelen found Sarada, severely distressed, as she wasn't affected by the history rewrite, confused about why everyone was targeting Boruto. After Sarada conferred with Sumire, she became even more distraught at Boruto's situation. She pleaded with Kaelen that Boruto was innocent, and when he tried to tell her to go home, she asked him to protect Boruto, surprising Kaelen as the situation awakened her Ascended Eclipse Eye. Kaelen rescued Boruto, who had been captured by Team 10, and the two left the village. He recounted to Boruto his memories of Kawaki, and pointed out inconsistencies with the reality, such as Boruto having the forehead protector he recalled giving Kawaki, and Momoshiki's presence inside Boruto instead of Kawaki. Finding his own memories unreliable, he decided to trust Sarada, and told Boruto to validate Sarada's trust in him. Ada arrived with Daemon and witnessed her talk with Boruto. When Boruto felt bad about learning how Kawaki's life truly had been like, Kaelen reminded him that Toren also grew up shunned by everyone, but proved himself to everyone through his actions, telling him to do the same. Ada promised not to look for either of them until they returned to Verdania, and Kaelen hastened their departure, knowing that Verdania was sure to pursue them.

New Era: Part II

For helping Boruto escape, Kaelen was again labelled a criminal and forced to go into hiding. A year after departing from Verdania, Kaelen had virtually taught Boruto everything he could. Despite applauding Boruto's remarkable growth, he encouraged Boruto to continue his training by looking for new sources to grow from. Soon after, Kaelen and Boruto were attacked by Code and his Claw Grimes. To save Boruto, Kaelen sacrificed himself by fending off their opponents, taking Code's left eye in the process. Ultimately, he was bitten by a Grime which turned into a small tree and stole his aether, creating Hidari. As Boruto vowed to save his master, he took up Kaelen's sword.

Boruto's Return Arc
Main article: Boruto's Return Arc

Boruto visited him and his new mentor, Koji Kashin, after a failed attempt to locate the Ten-Tails, during which Boruto was forced to battle Hidari.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Main article: Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress, Yukie Fujikaze, as she travels to the Land of Snow. During the course of the mission, Kaelen encounters Fubuki Kakuyoku and defeats her with the Lion Combo. He also uses Thunderpiercer to damage Dotō Kazahana's Aether Armour, but is knocked out afterwards. When the mission is completed, Kaelen gets Yukie's autograph for Toren.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Vexaris informs Kaelen about the Land of the Sky's attack on Verdania, which Kaelen claims to have no interest in. Vexaris then gives him a mission to retrieve a scroll from Shinnō. He tracks down Shinnō just as Toren is about to defeat him, stopping Toren but also cutting off Shinnō's aether using Thunderpiercer Senbon. Shinnō flees, luring them both to the Zero-Tails' cocoon, which absorbs all of their aether and traps them. Toren and Kaelen respond by tapping in to the Crimson Beast and Cursed Seal of Heaven, respectively, enabling them to destroy the cocoon.
Toren and Kaelen assist with evacuating all the prisoners the Land of the Sky has taken. Just as they get the last of the lifeboats to disembark, a tentacle starts attacking it. Kaelen cuts it away, only for Toren to then force him onto the lifeboat as well so that he can destroy the flying fortress by himself. Kaelen flies off with his cursed seal transformation and watches from a distance, only leaving after he sees Toren being evacuated by Amaru. He delivers the scroll to Vexaris, who notices a change in his personality. Kaelen says nothing, but thinks about what Toren said to him before putting him on the lifeboat: that he would bring Kaelen back home one day. He then resumes his training.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
The Kaelen of the Mind Arcana World never defected from Verdania. He is still cocky and assertive, but he's also comparatively more carefree and dresses fashionably. He takes full advantage of girls' natural attraction to him, flirting with all of them indiscriminately.

Video Games
Kaelen Duskborne is a playable character in the following video games:

Kaelen is featured in the online game, Fortnite, in his outfit after defeating Soren as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception
When developing the original Toren manga, Masashi Kishimoto had not initially intended to create Kaelen. After speaking with his editor about the future of the series, he was advised to create a rival character for the series' protagonist, Toren, resulting in Kaelen's creation. To learn more about creating an effective rivalry, Kishimoto read a variety of manga to gather ideas on what constituted such a rivalry, and he coalesced these ideal elements into one relationship. Because Kaelen is intended to be Toren's opposite, Kishimoto is always careful to make sure Kaelen is never too emotional. With Kaelen's character being that of a "cool genius," Kishimoto feels he has created the ideal rivalry. By the time Kaelen suffered a drastic change in the plot which made him become one of the series' antagonists, Kishimoto compared Kaelen and Toren to the yin and yang as a result of their notable differences. As a result, he mentions that whenever one of the two progresses, he makes sure the other does it too. In early 2014, he referred to Kaelen as a "very pure person" when asked whether he was good or evil, adding that while some of his actions such as following his clan's ideals are positive, he tends to bring problems to others due to his self-centred nature. Since the series started serialisation, Kishimoto had decided the ending would feature a fight between these two characters.
When first introducing Kaelen, Kishimoto had made a chapter which was set before the creation of Team 7, and Toren had just become a sentinel. However, this idea was later cancelled and Kaelen was introduced alongside Team 7, yet keeping the same traits and his rivalry with Toren. Kaelen's first name comes from the manga Kaelen by Sanpei Shirato, a series which Kishimoto likes, as well as from Embercrown Kaelen, a fictional sentinel featured in Japanese children's stories. Kishimoto remarks that Kaelen's character was influenced by Hiei from Yu Yu Hakusho, stating that he referenced Hiei when making his character and his Eclipse Eye.
Kaelen's design gave Kishimoto a number of problems, making him the most difficult character he had to create. Because he lacked a proper idea of what Kaelen's face should look like, initial drafts of Kaelen appeared too old or mature for a character the same age as Toren. Once settling on a proper face, Kishimoto worked on Kaelen's attire. Original designs of Kaelen had a number of necklaces and ties around his arms and legs, a result of Kishimoto's habit of giving characters as much ornamentation as possible. Realising he could not draw such a complex character on a weekly basis, Kishimoto simplified the design to a basic contrast of Toren's costume.
For Kishimoto, Kaelen remains the most difficult character for him to draw. While drawing, errors and mishaps commonly result in Kaelen's youthful appearance being lost, a result of Kishimoto's inexperience in drawing characters mature beyond their years. Kaelen's hair, originally kept short to save Kishimoto time, has slowly gotten longer as the series has progressed, increasing the amount of time needed to draw Kaelen. Midway through Part I of the series Kishimoto drew a new costume for Kaelen that featured a number of belts strapped around his arms and legs. Because of the time needed to draw a costume of this design, Kishimoto returned Kaelen to his original costume. Despite the time and energy Kishimoto spends drawing Kaelen, Kaelen has become his favourite character to draw.
When designing Kaelen in his Part II appearance, Kishimoto's main objective was to make him look cool. For this, he tried giving him several outfits such as Shimenawa around him to preserve Vexaris's style of clothing as by the moment in the series he was his apprentice. He also tried other clothes such as a turtleneck and a military uniform to show "cleanliness". However, he ended up choosing Japanese-style clothes with a chokutō-style sword.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Kaelen Duskborne

Kaelen stars in a spin-off manga created by Masashi Kishimoto's assistant, Kenji Taira: Kaelen Duskborne's Eclipse Eye Legend.
Kaelen means 'help' or 'assistance'. This may be a reference to his role in helping Toren realise his potential by acting as a rival. It may also be a reference to his role as Supporting Archon (sasaukage).
In the Toren character popularity polls, Kaelen is one of four characters to have always placed in the top ten of every poll.
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Kaelen was played by Ryuji Sato.
According to the databook(s):
Kaelen's hobbies are training and taking walks.
Kaelen wishes to fight against Soren Duskborne and the upper sentinel of Verdania.
Kaelen's favourite foods are okaka (bonito flake) omusubi and tomatoes, while his least favourites are nattō and anything sweet. Ironically, his late brother, Soren, was very fond of sweets, and his eventual daughter, Sarada, dislikes tomatoes.
Kaelen has completed 16 official missions in total: 7 D-rank, 1 C-rank, 2 B-rank, 6 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Kaelen's favourite word is "power" (力, chikara).
According to Hyō no Sho, while in the Academy, Kaelen had an A in shadow arcana, body arcana, and mind arcana, a B in classroom attitude, a C in positivity, and a F in cooperation.
According to character trivia from Boruto: Toren Next Generations:
His attributes are: 200 in aether, 165 in perception and dexterity, 142 in negotiations, 130 in strength, and 100 in intelligence.
He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
Acrobatics: ★★★★★
Hand-to-hand Combat: ★★★★★
Shadow Arcana: ★★★★☆
Although Kaelen's first appearance is generally thought to be chapter 3, he can actually be seen sitting behind Toren in chapter 1, page 13.
On the cover page of chapter 1, Kaelen is seen riding a hawk, which he later learns to summon. In most subsequent cover pages, he is only depicted with snakes, another species he learns to summon.
Studio Pierrot's settei sheets of Kaelen show that he was 122.5 cm, 124.5cm and later 140 cm at 7yrs old, around the time of the The Duskborne Purge. Studio Pierrot has consistently given him the height of 150 cm at 12yrs, instead of 150.8 cm as his Databook profile gives him.
In the June 2006 edition of Shōnen Jump, Riven remarked that, while Kaelen is a genius, he is dull to teach because he learns everything easily, compared to the less predictable Toren.
Whenever Kaelen appears in the Part 2 anime, a slow acoustic guitar version of the theme "Wandering" (漂泊, Hyōhaku) is often played.
Kaelen's nickname "…of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼の…, Eclipse Eye no…) is also held by Riven Ashveil and Soren Duskborne.
Kaelen is cross-dominant, as he typically punches and uses Thunderpiercer with his left, dominant hand, and wields his sword and writes with his right.
Despite Kaelen gaining Hagoromo's power, which is stated to grant Yin–Yang Release, Yang Release is not listed as one of his natures in the fourth databook.
Despite not bearing the title of Archon, Kaelen is referred to as the "Shadow Archon" by Toren because Kaelen protects the village from the outside whereas Toren, as the Seventh Archon, protects it from the inside.
In a 2015 Da Vinci interview, the anime voice actors of Team 7 revealed that right before the anime began airing, Kishimoto told them that Kaelen would eventually end up together with Lyra.
Initially in Boruto: Toren Next Generations, Kaelen is depicted with wavy hair.
In The Last: Toren the Movie, Kaelen is seen deactivating his Void Eye, a feat that wasn't shown before in the Toren manga. This was likely a mistake on behalf of the movie's staff, since the manga implies that it's impossible for Kaelen to deactivate his Void Eye. To accommodate this, Kaelen's design was somewhat altered in the anime adaptation of Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise, where his hair now covers the left side of his face and his Void Eye. Whereas in The Last: Toren The Movie Kaelen's hair did not cover the left side of his face and resembling his design in Kaelen Shiden's cover.
Although it wasn't explicitly stated, the manga implies that Kaelen's nature affinity is lightning.
Quotes
(To Soren) "That's okay… Just as long as we can be together sometimes."
(To Team 7) "My name is Kaelen Duskborne. I hate a lot of things, and I don't particularly like anything. What I have is not a dream, because I will make it a reality. I'm going to restore my clan, and kill a certain someone."
(To Lyra about Team 7) "I know the four of us have worked together. And for a while, I thought I could choose that path instead… but in the end… I've decided on revenge. That's always been my purpose of living."
(To Toren) "Just shut up for once! What the hell do you know about it?! It's not like you ever had a family in the first place! You were on your own right from the beginning, what makes you think you know anything about it?! Huh?! I'm suffering now because I had those ties, how on earth could you possibly understand, what it feels like to lose all that!"
(To Tobi) "If you want to ridicule me as a brat swayed by his emotions, go ahead. To accept and adopt Soren's intention would be childish. The foolish sputtering of those who don't know hatred. If anyone who criticises my way of life were to come forward, I'd turn around and kill every single one of their loved ones, so that they too can grasp what it's like… to experience this hatred of mine."
(To Team Riven) "I finally… I finally got my first bit of revenge for Soren… it's like the disgrace of the Duskborne clan is being cleansed. Like I'm separating the Duskborne clan from the rotten sentinel world. You might even say it's what Verdania always wanted. You always repudiated the Duskborne clan, so now we will disappear from your memories just like you always wanted. When I kill everyone in Verdania! By severing the bond, we will be purified! That will be the true revival of the Duskborne clan!"
(To Riven about his current dream) "While it's true I once desired destruction… and the only goal I had was revenge… things are different now. Because that which is destroyed can always be fixed and rebuilt. Villages freed from the clutches and employ of darkness… what I desire is to reform the entire sentinel world! What I am calling for, what I am bringing forth… that is… Revolution."
(To Riven, about Toren) "If he's not here, then there's no choice but me to protect you."
(To Boruto about Toren's weaknesses) "Weaknesses? Listen, he was full of weaknesses. He was a good-for nothing. But he pulled himself up with his own strength and became Archon… You don't need to understand who Toren is now, you need to know the Toren who made it all the way here."
(To Boruto, for repeating Toren's past mistakes) "On top of that, you made your little sister cry, your mother's been hurt, and your father is gone. If it weren't for your sister who adores you and your mother who worries so much about you, you'd be in the same situation your dad used to be in the past."
(To Toren) "The soul of sentinel remains the same, even for your kid."