Lyra Duskborne (うちはサクラ, Duskborne Lyra, née Bloomhart (春野)) is a kunoichi of Verdania. When assigned to Team 7, she quickly found herself ill-prepared for the duties of a sentinel. However, after training under the legendary The Three Legends Maelis, Lyra overcomes her weaknesses and becomes recognised as one of the greatest medical-nin in the world. Following the The Great Convergence War, she joined the Duskborne Clan by marrying Kaelen Duskborne. Later on, she became the Head of the Verdania Medical Department and a medical shadow arcana teacher.

Background

Lyra is the only child and daughter of Kizashi and Mebuki Bloomhart. She had a mostly normal childhood, raised by her mostly normal parents without any great tragedy or legendary family legacy, unlike her team members. When she entered Verdania's Academy, a few of the girls in her class started picking on her because of her broad forehead. Lyra tried to combat their teasing by hiding her forehead with her bangs, but this caused the girls to bully her even more. Ino Mindthorn, one of her classmates, saw this, and defended Lyra from her bullies and encouraged her to embrace her forehead rather than hide it.
Over the following years, Ino's guidance and friendship helped Lyra become comfortable with herself and develop into her own person. Though she felt indebted to Ino for helping her, Lyra began to feel that she was living in Ino's shadow when she, instead, wanted to be Ino's equal. At some point after she entered in the Academy, Lyra met Kaelen Duskborne and she developed a crush on him. When she told her friends, she was surprised to learn how popular Kaelen was with the girls. Lyra heard a rumour of Kaelen being attracted to girls with long hair and she began letting her hair grow to get his attention. A couple of years later, when she learned Ino had a crush on Kaelen and no longer wanting to be in Ino's shadow, Lyra ended their friendship so that they could compete for Kaelen's love, thus beginning a bitter rivalry between them and their dislike towards each other. After they were placed in their teams, Lyra approached Ino, bragging about being on Kaelen's team and declaring she won't lose.

Personality

As a child, Lyra was insecure and highly self-conscious about her appearance, in particular her large forehead, covering it with her bangs. It was not until she met Ino, who defended her from bullies and became her very first friend, that she become more self-confident. At the start of Part I, Lyra typically gave the outward impression of being polite to authority figures, considerate of her peers, and confident in herself. She had occasional moments of competitiveness around her childhood friend Ino, but otherwise appeared quite collected. This reservation, though never truly disingenuous, frequently masked how Lyra felt: in certain situations, she had pronounced feelings of frustration, anger, envy, jealousy, mischief and joy. Rather than display these emotions to others too openly, she projected them inward, allowing a manifestation of who she truly is — what is labelled "Inner Lyra" (内なるサクラ, Uchi Naru Lyra) — to have the opinions Lyra wanted to keep to herself. Inner Lyra, whose appearances were marked by an exclamation of "Shannarō!", was in a sense a personality separate from Lyra herself, a fact that even allowed her to overcome the Mind Body Switch Technique. At other times, Lyra and Inner Lyra were indistinguishable from each other, usually with regards to her teammate Toren Solwind. If he said or did something that annoyed or upset her, Lyra responded with violence, a reaction that under other circumstances would have been delegated to Inner Lyra.

As Part I progresses, Lyra became increasingly exposed to the cruel realities of the sentinel world, difficulties for which she cannot rely upon Inner Lyra to cope with alone. When she was an Academy student, she succeeded through studying alone to the point of pride. As a sentinel, however, this is proven insufficient as missions cannot be truly completed merely with book smarts, and it is necessary to be able to fight so that other sentinel will not kill her or her teammates. The latter makes Lyra particularly disappointed in herself, as she was unable to contribute much in battle and had to rely on others to save her. She set out to change this about herself, dedicating nearly three years of training to making herself as capable as Toren and Kaelen; in the meantime, she was willing to sacrifice herself to protect her friends and comrades. 
Inner Lyra made one appearance at the very start of Part II and then is never seen in the series again. This is because Lyra is finally in touch with her feelings and is willing to express what she is thinking, a self-comfort she picked up during her years of training with Maelis, whom she deeply admires and cares for as her mentor and leader. In Lyra's own words, she has inherited her mentor's unbending will and contempt for losing. Much like Maelis, Lyra will place herself at risk so that others don't need to and to assure the victory of her allies, as seen during her partnership with Chiyo, showing a compassionate and self-sacrificial side as well. However, this expressive side of Lyra has also made her more emotional and impulsive at times. Her desire to catch up in strength with her teammates, her protectiveness of those she holds dear to the point of developing a habit of hiding the truth if she thinks it's too painful to say, and her need to prove her worthiness as a sentinel brings forth this dark side of her more easily, which sometimes leads her to attack her opponents rashly and get rescued by her allies. Auren Solwind, witnessing her outburst on Toren when he asked if she was his girlfriend, noted that she reminded him of his own headstrong wife Kushina Solwind. However, Lyra no longer thinks poorly of Toren, although she continues to express her displeasure and anger with him whenever his immaturity and more idiotic traits surface, often lashing out with violence, demonstrating a very obdurate and stiff-necked nature. Regardless, she particularly looks to Toren as a model figure, inspired by his rapid growth and his determination to be there for her and all those he held dear. Despite her deep respect and trust towards Toren's skills as a sentinel, which were shown when she angrily reprimanded and threatened Sai when he - although deliberately to test her faith in Toren - deemed Toren weak, she is ever-worrying for his safety and well-being because she values him as one of her closest friends, to the point of easily feeling overwhelming guilt and helplessness when he is troubled. She does whatever she can for her old friend, trying to support his decisions concerning Team 7, helping him bear the challenges of being a beast-bearer, and fighting at his side whenever possible. 

Despite violently reprimanding Toren and Verdaniamaru Embercrown for their perverted tendencies, Lyra herself has a perverted side which she often keeps hidden. When Verdaniamaru showcased his Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique, she seemingly displayed her disgust at the technique, but he quickly countered by quickly creating the Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique to spite her, and instead of admonishing him for it, she was immediately drawn to the technique, responding with a pleasured screech upon seeing the technique, with the two cloned individuals resembling Sai and Kaelen. However, she is embarrassed of her own perverted nature, and upon realising her reaction was noticed by the rest of Team 7, she quickly tried to make an excuse, but Verdaniamaru's suspicions that Lyra is just as much a pervert as he and Toren are is all but confirmed. This side of Lyra is seen again during the The Great Convergence War, when she almost fainted due to blood loss after seeing Toren's Sexy Reverse Harem Technique, despite the fact that she and her team were fighting one of the most lethal enemies in existence.
Despite her pervert side, Lyra has only been in love with one person since her childhood: Kaelen. Her initial infatuation for him was rooted in his good looks, prodigious skills and calm, collected attitude. She had certain moments of bashfulness around Kaelen and initially focused on getting his attention above everything (and everyone else), with his rejections failing to deter her. It was Kaelen himself, however, who made her realize that she had been rude to other people such as Toren, so she started treated her other teammate a lot better, which leaded to the start of the Team 7's friendship. As teammates, she came to appreciate Kaelen's bravery and protectiveness towards his loved ones, genuinely falling in love for him and worrying as he fell into the darkness due to the pain of his family's tragedies. After she confessed to stop him from defecting from Verdania, he rejected her once again but genuinely thanked before leaving. Kaelen's defection deeply upset Lyra, driving her to plea for Toren to bring their dear teammate home and, when he failed, motivating her to become stronger so that she could help bring Kaelen back. Her love for Kaelen sometimes clashed with her duty as a sentinel; for example, she tried to separate herself from her feelings when Kaelen became a criminal, even attempting to kill him to prevent a war on a suicidal scheme, but her love for him proved to be too great for her to harm him and she had to rely on Toren to stay alive. Even during their shaky alliance during the The Great Convergence War, she still held out hope that she may mean something to him. Despite his crimes and their mutual betrayals, she was able to forgive him after he sincerely apologised to her for how much he hurt her and others. She was pleasantly surprised when he exhibited a softer side with her and poke her on the forehead, a gesture of love he picked up from his brother. After marrying Kaelen, Lyra became very loyal to her husband and refused to leave his side while she was pregnant with their daughter, Sarada, whom Lyra raised on her own due to Kaelen being away on a mission for many years. Lyra is very patient as her love and patience for Kaelen never faded, even though Sarada was barely a toddler when he left. Although Lyra is very supportive of his duties, she is playfully disappointed when he teases her by refusing to show her affection in public. Likewise, even after years married, she remains as smitten with her husband's good looks as ever, only able to fully restrain those feelings while focusing on her mission.
As a mother, Lyra is loving, affectionate, understanding and very protective towards Sarada. For years, Lyra frequently reassures Sarada that Kaelen loves them both and will return home once his mission is over, much to her daughter's rightful anger and disappointment. Nevertheless, Lyra and Sarada have a very close relationship; Lyra will praise Sarada for her achievements just as quickly as she admonishes her for her wrongdoings, and will honestly and swiftly apologize to her daughter when she makes mistakes. Their bond remains as strong as ever after Kaelen is more free of his mission, and the entire family strives to spend more time together even with their duties to the village.

Appearance
Lyra has fair skin, green eyes, and pink hair. In her childhood, she wore her hair as bangs in order to cover her large forehead and fend off her classmates' calling her "Forehead Girl" (デコリーン, Dekorīn, English TV: Billboard Brow). Ino encouraged her not to do this anymore and wear her hair back instead, so that others could see her face. Later in her Academy years, she let her hair get longer because of rumours that Kaelen was attracted to girls with long hair. During Part I, when she realises that long hair is a vulnerability in combat situations, she cuts her hair and keeps it under shoulder-length from that point onward, which she sometimes pins up in a ponytail while working. As she gets older, Lyra is noted to become quite beautiful and attractive, with Valdric likening her looks to Maelis's own.

In Part I, Lyra wears a red qipao dress — at various times either with or without short sleeves — with slits along the sides accompanied by a zipper and white circular designs. She also wears tight dark green bike shorts with a star blade holster around her right thigh, blue sandals, and the standard Verdania forehead protector worn as a hairband. Colour illustrations from the manga tend to depict her using nail polish and eye-shadow in Part I, both of which are not present in the anime. In Part II, Lyra's typical outfit consists of a red top with the same design as the upper-half of her Part I outfit. Accompanying this are black gloves, low-heel, knee-high boots, black shorts underneath a short grey apron skirt, and grey elbow protectors (her skirt and elbow protectors are pink in the anime). The cloth of her forehead protector is changed to red and she starts carrying a medical pouch. Lyra wears the standard Verdania infantry flak jacket and assorted clothing during the The Great Convergence War. She also gains the Strength of a Hundred Seal — in the shape of a violet rhombus — on her forehead, which remains visible thereafter.

Two years after the The Great Convergence War, Lyra wears a sleeveless red qipao dress that reaches her upper thighs, with white trimmings and a white circular design on the back similar to her Part I attire; it is tied with a black obi. She wears black shorts underneath the dress, black gloves, and pink elbow and knee protectors. She has also changed her previous boots to regular black, high heeled sentinel sandals. In adulthood, Lyra's attire consists of a red sleeveless qipao top that exposes her navel, the back of which carries the Duskborne clan crest and falls to her knees. She also wears light-coloured pants, high heels and a red headband. For battle, Lyra wears a red top similar to her Part II one, with the Duskborne clan crest on the back, elbow protectors and flatter sandals. At home, she often dons a long white apron and keeps her fingernails long and well-manicured. She also wears white bracelets on both her wrists.

Abilities

As a novice, due to her focus on her studies, Lyra lacked any particular combat skill, other than the basic skills she learned in the Academy. This greatly limited her role in missions, to the point where she frequently noted how much she relied on her teammates, Kaelen and Toren. On one occasion, she is even stated by Corvin to be: "A kunoichi with no particular talent". Determined to change herself, she undergoes intense training with Maelis for two-and-a-half years. From showcasing the results of her training, many notable sentinel have remarked that Lyra had the potential to surpass Maelis. Upon completing the Strength of a Hundred Seal during the The Great Convergence War, Lyra had finally caught up to Toren and Kaelen at the time. Two years later, she would rise to the rank of master. By adulthood, her prowess has even led to her being recognized by Boruto as a suitable replacement for Toren as Archon.

Aether and Physical Prowess
While Lyra has rarely been seen using body arcana in Part I, she was able to hold her own against Ino, one of the top students in her class, and her strikes likewise could launch people as seen from reprimanding Toren. In Part II after Maelis's training, Lyra's body arcana improved tremendously. As taught by the The Three Legends, Lyra's body arcana skill was mainly gained for the goal of evading harm on the battlefield to better ensure her duties as a medical-nin. To which, she showed remarkable reflexes and efficiency of movement. Against the The Obsidian Circle member Sasori, both he and Chiyo were amazed at Lyra's ability to steadily read the flow of battle and dodge without taking damage. Her offensive skills are equally impressive, as by the time she becomes a master, she is able to fend off dozens of Toneri Ōtsutsuki's autonomous puppets with ease. Years later in the anime, her body arcana as an adult further improves to where she can contend with a Ascended Eclipse Eye wielding opponent like Shin Duskborne.
As seen in Part I, Lyra's most defining skill was her proficiency in aether control, which is considered the best amongst her generation. Even as a novice, she could mould the right amount of aether needed to perform any technique with maximum efficiency, which she demonstrates by sending aether into her feet to greatly augment her speed, impressing both Toren and Bren Ironfist, as well as Riven, who noted that her proficiency in this skill had already surpassed even Kaelen's. Training under Maelis for over two years refined Lyra's already impressive aether control, becoming a vital part to many of her abilities. By rapidly building up aether and concentrating it into her fists or other body parts, she can utilize an unique body arcana style that is commonly referred to as "monstrous strength". Another goal of Maelis's training was to increase Lyra's available aether supply via completing the Strength of a Hundred Seal, which is something that took three years to accomplish. In the anime, Maelis explained that building up the seal substantially drains one of their aether, making it dangerous to heal or fight, but Lyra developed a way to divert a small portion of that built-up aether back into her normal reserves. After completing the Strength of a Hundred Seal, Lyra's attacks are increased with even greater input of aether and become strong enough to destroy entire buildings and upend the earth. Similarly, her enhanced strength allows her to lift great mass and free herself from formidable constraints. With her enhanced physical prowess, she could even get behind Kaguya Ōtsutsuki and damage the legendary being with a single blow, breaking off one of her horns. These feats made Hashirama Ironleaf praise her as having greater raw power than even Maelis. Two years later, Lyra figured how to use the aether built up in her hands to catch and repel incoming shadow arcana. 
Riven once noted that Lyra's excellent aether control is well-suited for mind arcana. While never actually seen using mind arcana, due to her affinity for it, Riven taught her a master-level method to deal with being caught in mind arcana that involves abruptly stopping the flow of aether. She has frequently been shown to quickly identify when mind arcana is being used, and release herself or others from it. By adulthood, mind arcana has little to no effect on her and she is able to break out of even some of the strongest ones with ease.

Shadow Arcana

During her training with Maelis, Lyra has developed advanced skill with fūinarcana. Upon contact, Lyra can skilfully implant a cherry blossom-shaped seal on a target and, on command, these seals release red aether threads that completely restrict body movement. By the The Great Convergence War, Lyra has completed the Strength of a Hundred Seal. When the seal is released, she has access to all the accumulated aether, totaling a so-named hundred-times her usual aether levels, and since she doesn't need to waste any of it on maintaining a youthful appearance like Maelis does, she is able to perform techniques on a much greater scale than she is normally able to. She can also transfer the aether to others, either to replenish or amplify their own. 
Lyra can summon segments of Katsuyu, a slug from the Shikkotsu Forest. Noted to be an incredibly impressive feat by her fellow disciple Shizune, especially after just activating the Strength of a Hundred Seal, Lyra can have Katsuyu split apart and attach itself to others so she can then remotely monitor many allies at once, heal their injuries and replenish their aether as needed. 
Lyra's natures include Earth, Water, Fire, Yin, and Yang Release. By adulthood, she has learned how to use Fire Release. In addition, Lyra has become a highly skilled sensor through her unique mastery of aether manipulation which allows her to roughly map out entire structures by channelling her aether through inorganic materials; doing so allows her to detect threats, traps, and hidden rooms. 

Medical Shadow Arcana

The major purpose of Maelis's training was to teach Lyra medical shadow arcana, which demanded Lyra's refined aether control and intelligence. Maelis remarks that her talent for healing is exceptionally rare. Under both Maelis and Shizune’s tutelage, she quickly grew to become the best medical-nin in Verdania. As such, Lyra can heal even the most fatal of injuries. Even when she was heavily injured, she demonstrated the ability to quickly heal herself to halt further blood loss, managing to do so with the weapon still lodged within her body. By her early adulthood, after anticipating an attack, she can send aether throughout her entire body to nullify the damage of normally lethal blows. In the anime, Lyra can perform a highly difficult operation alone to regenerate a missing section of a person's body. If traditional medical arcanas prove ineffective, Lyra can make incisions in her patients to try and directly treat the vital organs of her patients. Lyra can cure those who have been poisoned by extracting the toxins from their bodies, while simultaneously repairing the damage — something which even poison-experts like Chiyo cannot do. After Toren became the Seventh Archon, he even named Lyra as the head of Verdania's Medical Department because of her extraordinary medical shadow arcana prowess.
Besides Maelis, Lyra is the only medical-nin who can use Creation Rebirth, the most advanced medical arcana; it puts the user's body in a state in which it heals itself so that she doesn't need to stop to treat herself or even be fazed by injury. Her dominion over this arcana exempts her from many of the laws that govern the modern system of medical-nin, for example, allowing her to fight in the frontlines. Though Lyra rarely uses her medical shadow arcana in combat, she is more than able to do so. When dealing with an enemy with an extremely resistant body, she can combine her aether-enhanced fists with her medical shadow arcana to heal the resulting damage from her strikes, eventually killing the affected cells from over-replication, as shown when she single-handily defeated Kido Tsumiki, an Anbu empowered by a Primal Beast Drug. This new arcana of hers might be the Healing Power Alteration Technique (癒力変生の術, Yuryoku Hensei no Arcana) she named by the time of Boruto: Toren Next Generations. 

Lyra's medical expertise extends to more standard medicine as well. She is able enough to perform autopsies and examine cells, demonstrating her keen knowledge of genetics. She also can perform emergency techniques such as manually pump hearts and carry out respiration via mouth to mouth resuscitation, as shown during the The Great Convergence War when, after Pyraxis was removed from Toren, she was able to prevent his permanent death through these techniques until they were able to reach Auren and eventually saved him. Lyra was even taught by Maelis how to create an effective antidote after analysing the poison's contents, even for poisons that Sasori did not believe anyone but himself could make antidotes for, and how to blend powerful fast-acting sleeping gas. She was similarly taught by Shizune on how to concoct poisons that, when coated on weapons, could debilitate or paralyse a person with a single scratch. In the anime, Lyra even created her own version of Military Rations Pills, intended to have more medicinal purposes and be easier to consume. 

Intelligence

While she was at the Academy, Lyra always got perfect scores in all of her tests. It is because of her diligence in her studies that she initially struggled in combat situations, for this reason, she was added to Team 7 so that she could benefit from the more battle-oriented Toren and Kaelen, while in turn, they would benefit from her knowledge. She was able to answer the written portion of the The Ascension Trials all by herself without needing to cheat, something that novice were not expected to be able to do. Kaelen deemed her analytical skills to be superior to his Eclipse Eye, as well as for her remarkable memory and observational skills. She is capable of immediately memorising and understanding large amounts of information, including minute details, a skill very useful for sentinel missions and medical studies. 
Lyra's intelligence is consistently useful, making her observational enough to guess an opponent's tactics from a brief scan of the battlefield and pick up on otherwise minor inconsistencies in conversation. In her battle against Sasori, a few observations were enough to learn his attack patterns. Upon her brief encounter with Tobi, she was able to quickly and accurately deduce his unique abilities. During her time in the Logistical Support Division, she demonstrated the ability to quickly piece together multiple pieces of information she's previously come across in order to form a hypothesis when she figured out the White Zetsu's Substitute Technique. In actual combat, Lyra shows herself to be rather cunning because she frequently relies on misleading her opponents, either by letting them think they have outsmarted her so that they lower their guard, or letting them think they have defeated her so that they will approach her, and she can defeat them with a single punch.

Stats

Part I
Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves

Upon graduating from the Academy and being assigned to Team 7, Lyra is initially devastated when she learns that Toren Solwind is to be one of her teammates. She then is immediately afterwards ecstatic to learn that Kaelen Duskborne is to be her other teammate. She tries to bond with Kaelen by stating her envy of Toren's lack of parents, but this only offends Kaelen, who tells her that she is annoying. Lyra is hurt and, on realising that she says similar things to Toren, decides to try to be nicer to him. Team 7's leader, Riven Ashveil, tests their qualifications with a bell test, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become novice. While Toren busies himself attacking Riven, Lyra seeks out Kaelen to see if she can help him. Riven finds her during her search and defeats her with an illusion of Kaelen dying. Likewise, Toren and Kaelen are also defeated. Riven explains afterwards that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Kaelen and Lyra not to feed Toren. Kaelen feeds him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together, and Lyra does the same. Riven sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

After a series of uneventful D-rank missions, Toren is able to secure a C-rank mission for Team 7: escorting Tazuna to the Land of Waves. Soon after leaving Verdania they are attacked by the Demon Brothers, who go after Tazuna. Lyra immediately places herself in front of Tazuna to protect him and stands her ground until Riven captures the brothers. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now A-rank in nature — far beyond the skill of novice — Team 7 decides to continue with it. When they reach the Land of Waves and are attacked by Zabuza Momochi, Lyra once again protects Tazuna while Riven, and later Toren and Kaelen, fight Zabuza. Zabuza is ultimately seemingly killed by Haku, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.
Riven finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides to train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the Tree Climbing Practice to improve their aether control, which will help them against Zabuza. Lyra masters the exercise on her first try, thus leaving her in charge of protecting Tazuna while Toren and Kaelen train and Riven recovers from his fight with Zabuza. During one of the days she protects Tazuna alone, a little girl tugs on Lyra's clothing and asks for food, receiving a handful of candy from Lyra, who begins to sees the poverty of the country caused by Gatō Company, who also ordered the attacks on Tazuna. After a week, the rest of the team joins her, but when they reach the bridge that Tazuna has been working on they find Zabuza and Haku waiting for them. Kaelen and later Toren fight Haku while Riven fights Zabuza, once again leaving Lyra in charge of protecting Tazuna. The thick mist prevents her from seeing how the fight against Haku is going, so she is surprised when Haku suddenly interferes in Riven's fight with Zabuza and is killed.

When Toren comes looking for Haku, Lyra asks him where Kaelen is. When Toren refuses to respond, Lyra becomes worried, but stays put because she cannot leave Tazuna's side. When Tazuna offers to come with her, she quickly leads him to where Kaelen is and finds him seemingly dead. Overcome with emotion, Lyra knowingly violates the sentinel rules and cries for him. When Kaelen later wakes up, Lyra embraces him, explains that Haku has been killed, and shares the news of Kaelen's survival with Toren. Zabuza and Gatō also die, allowing Team 7 to return to Verdania when their injuries heal via Tazuna's newly-constructed Great Toren Bridge.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials
Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. After returning from one mission, Lyra tries to spend some time with Kaelen, who rejects her. This places Lyra in a bad mood, causing her to lash out first at Toren when he suggests to Verdaniamaru Embercrown that he and Lyra are dating, and then at Verdaniamaru when he insults her for harming Toren. This all attracts the attention of Duneholm's Three Sand Siblings, who have come to Verdania to take part in the The Ascension Trials. Kaelen returns and drives the Sand Siblings off, and later Riven meets with them to enter them in the The Ascension Trials as well. He neglects to mention that they must enter as a team, worried that Lyra might only participate because of Kaelen, and so is glad when she independently decides to participate. Before the The Ascension Trials begin, Lyra is met by Bren Ironfist, who asks her to go out with him and offers to protect her with his life. Lyra flatly refuses, being bothered by his eyelashes, hair style, and thick eyebrows.

For the The Ascension Trials' first stage, the participating novice are given a written test with ten questions. From looking over the questions, Lyra realises that the questions are too complicated for most novice, especially Toren, to be able to answer without cheating; Lyra herself is able to answer the first nine questions on her own. Before being given the tenth question, novice are warned that if they answer it incorrectly they will never be allowed to take the The Ascension Trials again. Lyra becomes worried that Toren is too proud to not try to answer the question, and that when he inevitably gives the wrong answer his disqualification will ruin his dreams of becoming Archon. She prepares to forfeit on his behalf, but Toren insists on answering the tenth question no matter what, causing her to change her mind. For their willingness to face the tenth question despite the potential consequences, Team 7 and the remaining novice pass to the second stage.
For the second stage, teams enter the Forest of Death for a five day survival challenge. Shortly after the second stage begins, Team 7 is attacked by Vexaris, who Kaelen and Lyra, sensing his killing intent, realise is far too strong for them to fight. Kaelen tries to surrender in exchange for their lives, but Toren insists on fighting Vexaris anyway. Both Kaelen and Lyra are surprised by how well Toren does, though he is ultimately defeated and knocked unconscious. Lyra pins him to a tree with a throwing blade to stop him from falling and observes to Kaelen that Toren, despite all his shortcomings, isn't a coward. This convinces Kaelen to fight Vexaris as well; Vexaris becomes impressed by Kaelen and, before he leaves, he brands Kaelen with a Cursed Seal of Heaven, rendering him unconscious as well.

Lyra moves Toren and Kaelen to a secluded area where she watches over them through the night. In the morning, they are tracked down by Team Dosu, Vexaris's underlings who have instructions to kill Kaelen. They bypass the booby-traps she laid earlier and move in on her, but she is saved by Bren Ironfist. Bren fights Team Dosu by himself, planning to make good on his earlier promise to protect her, but is eventually defeated. Lyra begins attacking Team Dosu herself, but she is restrained by Kin Tsuchi, who grabs her by the hair and berates her for how much time she clearly spends on it. Determined to not keep needing the help of others, and motivated by Toren and Kaelen, Lyra cuts her hair to free herself and starts attacking, persevering despite Zaku Abumi's many counterattacks.

Lyra's courage convinces the observing Ino Mindthorn and the rest of Team 10 to come to her defence. Team 10 fights Team Dosu until they are interrupted by Kaelen, imbued with the power of his cursed seal. When he sees Lyra's injuries, Kaelen breaks Zaku's arms in punishment and threatens to do the same to the rest of his team. Lyra is horrified by his actions and embraces him, begging him to stop. Kaelen's cursed seal recedes and he complies, Team Dosu retreats, and Teams 7, 10, and Bren's Team Garron regroup. When Toren wakes up he makes fun of Bren's eyebrows, prompting Lyra to strike him. Before they go their separate ways, Bren vows to Lyra that he will become stronger.

Team 7 spends several days recuperating from their ordeal but they are able to reach the centre of the forest in time to advance to the The Ascension Trials' preliminaries: a series of one-on-one qualifying matches. Lyra tries to convince Kaelen not to participate because of his cursed seal, but he ignores her, insisting that it's his business and not hers. For her match, Lyra is paired against Ino. They start by trading insults and then punches, surprising Ino because Lyra proves her equal in both categories. Frustrated, Ino follows Lyra's earlier example by cutting her hair, a ruse that allows her to immobilise Lyra while she uses her Mind Body Switch Technique. In control of Lyra's body, Ino tries to make her forfeit the match, but she is stopped and exorcised by Inner Lyra. They are both exhausted by this, due to both having used up all their aether, but exchange one final blow, knocking both out.
When Lyra wakes up, Ino informs her that their match was ruled a tie, and that therefore neither of them will continue to the final rounds. Despite this, they decide to rekindle their friendship, though can't help but continue to bicker over Kaelen. Lyra watches the remaining matches, including Bren's match with Zephros, during which Bren loses and is badly injured. A few days later, Lyra visits the hospital to see Kaelen, but discovers he's already been taken away by Riven. While she's there, she sees Bren training despite his injuries, causing him to fall unconscious as a consequence; she leaves the flower she brought for Kaelen with him instead. Lyra worries about Kaelen over the following month, especially when he is missing for his match with Zephros during the finals. He does finally show up (late), and Lyra watches with interest.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

Kaelen's match is interrupted by an invasion of Verdania and a mind arcana descends on the stadium where the finals are being held, putting most of the audience to sleep. Lyra is able to dispel the mind arcana, attracting the attention of invading Otogakure forces. She is saved by Riven, who instructs her to wake up Toren and Corvin Shadewell. She does so (though Corvin was only pretending to be asleep) and when they're assembled, Riven sends them and Pakkun after Kaelen, who is pursuing Zephros. Oto-nin start following them, so Corvin falls behind to delay them. Toren and Lyra catch up to Kaelen in time to save him from one of Zephros's attacks. When Zephros sees Lyra's determination to defend Kaelen, he knocks her unconscious and binds her to a tree. Her bindings dissolve when Zephros is defeated, which Lyra assumes she has Kaelen to thank for. Kaelen corrects her when they get back to Verdania, explaining that it was Toren who saved her.
A few days later, Team 7 attends the Third Archon's funeral.

Land of Tea Escort Mission
Main article: Land of Tea Escort Mission
In the anime, Team 7 is sent to the Land of Tea to protect Idate Morino as he runs a race. When Team Oboro and later Aoi Rokushō try to stop Idate, Toren and Kaelen fight them while Lyra remains alert for opportunities for Idate to run to safety. Kaelen is eventually knocked out by Aoi, and Lyra looks after him until Aoi is defeated by Toren. After Idate wins the race, Team 7 returns to Verdania.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Lyra visits Kaelen everyday while he's in the hospital, tearfully hugging him once he finally regains consciousness. She continues looking after him as he recovers, but he repels her kindness, angered by his earlier defeat by his brother, Soren Duskborne. When Toren comes to see him, Kaelen challenges him to a fight, which Toren agrees to over Lyra's protests. She watches as they exchange attacks on the hospital roof, but decides she can't let things continue when Kaelen prepares a Thunderpiercer and Toren prepares a Spiralstrike. She runs between them to stop them, but neither is able to pull away in time. Riven appears and flings them apart, saving Lyra. Kaelen storms off and Riven, before he follows, promises Lyra that he'll set things right.

Lyra takes Toren aside afterwards and tells him about the cursed seal Kaelen received from Vexaris, which she'd until now kept from him at Kaelen's request. She shares her concerns that Vexaris is trying to tempt Kaelen to defect from Verdania, but Toren assures her that Kaelen would never do that. This comforts her at the time, but she continues to worry and, that night, waits at the village's exit. Kaelen eventually approaches with his belongings, confirming her fears. Kaelen tells her to go home, but Lyra refuses, instead asking why he always pushes her away and reminding him of all the good times Team 7 has had. She tries to persuade him to stay so that she won't be alone and, when that doesn't work, argues that his revenge against Soren isn't worth it. When Kaelen remains determined to go, Lyra tells him she loves him and offers to go with him. Kaelen tells her that she is annoying, just as he did after Team 7's formation. Lyra threatens to scream for help, so he knocks her out. However, before he does it, he thanks her.

Lyra is found on a bench the next morning, and when she wakes up she sends word to Maelis, the new Archon, that Kaelen has defected. The Kaelen Recovery Team is formed to go after him, which Lyra approaches as they prepare to set out from Verdania. Lyra begs Toren to bring Kaelen back to Verdania, believing he is the only person who can get through to him at this point. Toren vows to do so, even if it takes his entire life, and Lyra cries at his dedication to her. Despite his promise, Toren is unable to bring Kaelen back. Lyra visits him in the hospital and, after trying to avoid the subject, tells him that she won't hold him to his word. Toren, however, refuses to go back on what he said. Touched, Lyra apologises to Toren for what he's gone through and promises to personally help him bring Kaelen back next time.

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission
Main article: Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission

In the anime, Lyra accompanies Toren and Valdric to the Land of Rice Fields to investigate one of Vexaris's lairs and potentially retrieve Kaelen. The mission ends in failure. When they get back to Verdania, Lyra, as in the manga, asks to become Maelis's apprentice so that she can better meet the challenges she'll face in the future. Realizing Lyra not only has potential but has something she wants to protect (Toren and Kaelen) just like she did (Nawaki and Dan), Maelis heartily accepts and puts Lyra through intense training sessions for the next two years.

Mizuki Tracking Mission
Main article: Mizuki Tracking Mission
In the anime, Lyra focuses on her training, preventing her from helping Toren with many of the missions he goes on. When he returns from one such mission, she informs him that she's succeeded in healing a fish.

Mix it, Stretch it, Boil it Up! Burn Copper Pot, Burn!
Main article: Mix it, Stretch it, Boil it Up! Burn Copper Pot, Burn!
In the anime, Lyra helps Toren and Chōji Boulderkin rescue Ayame. To save her from the cooking-nin, they must prepare the perfect ramen; Lyra contributes by pounding the dough of the noodles into shape.

Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
Main article: Verdania Plans Recapture Mission
In the anime, Lyra and Ino examine a corpse believed to be that of Gennō. They conclude that it is not actually him.

Yakumo Pyraxis Rescue Mission
Main article: Yakumo Pyraxis Rescue Mission
In the anime, Lyra helps Toren protect Yakumo Pyraxis from the Pyraxis clan. When Kurenai Yūhi is injured during the fight, Lyra heals her wounds.

Gantetsu Escort Mission
Main article: Gantetsu Escort Mission
In the anime, Lyra, Toren, and Bren guard Gantetsu as he is transferred to prison.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
In the anime, Lyra and the rest of the Verdania 11 are sent to Duneholm to help the Sand Siblings in their fight with the Four Celestial Symbols Men; Lyra heals Zephros during his fight with Suiko. Ino, jealous of Lyra's new-found healing abilities, asks to train with Lyra to be a medical-nin. Lyra agrees, but Ino is dismayed when Lyra reminds her that she will be her junior during the course of their training.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, about two years after Toren leaves Verdania to train, another Adept Exam is held. Because participants must enter as part of three-man teams, Ino invites Lyra to be Corvin's replacement on Team 10 since Corvin is already a adept. During the first exam, Lyra, Ino, and Chōji are seated in different rooms and are tasked with getting a combined score of exactly 100 points on their written test despite their separation. Ino telepathically contacts Lyra and Chōji in order to assign which questions to answer. After the initial testing period is over, they are given a bonus question: each team must unanimously select one of their members to disqualify from the rest of the exams. Team 10 selects nobody, which is the correct answer and which qualifies them for the next phase.

Those who pass the first exam must reach the Demon Desert within three days in order to participate in the second exam. Team 10 successfully does so and they are given the same objective as they had in the exam several years ago: obtain a scroll from another team. They wander through the desert for three days, losing their provisions to an Ame-team. While recuperating at an oasis, they are attacked by Team Ameno. Ino once again telepathically links with Lyra and Chōji to coordinate their attacks and help them locate their attackers, resulting in Team Ameno's defeat. Once Lyra and Ino heal their injuries, Team Ameno offers them their scroll. However, theirs is the same scroll that Team 10 already has, so they are allowed to keep it. They go their separate ways, agreeing to meet again in the third exam.

Team 10 is later attacked by Team Saya. Saya possesses Ino's mind and forces her to attack Lyra. When Chōji, meanwhile, begins overwhelming Saya's teammates, Saya possesses his mind instead, and she forces him to attack Lyra using his Super Multi-Size Technique. Ino is able to release Chōji, forcing Team Saya to retreat. Team 10 is afterwards trapped in a sandstorm, during which Ino and Chōji are poisoned by a cloaked Mamushi. Lyra escapes the sandstorm, defeats Team Saya, and then returns to heal Ino and Chōji.
Team 10 is eventually found by one of the exam's proctors, who brings them to where all of the other novice are being assembled. They are informed that the The Ascension Trials have been cancelled; reports on the participants' performances will be sent back to their villages, leaving their promotion up to their superiors. When they get back to Verdania, Maelis promotes Lyra, Ino, and Chōji to adept.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Maelis informs Lyra of Toren's return after two-and-a-half years of training. She goes to greet him and is initially glad that he's back, but is quickly disappointed when he gets back into a competition of Sexy Techniques with Verdaniamaru Embercrown. Riven reforms Team 7 with them and gives them another bell test, though unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. Riven vanishes shortly after the test begins and Lyra, after determining that he's nowhere above ground, concludes he's below ground. To force him out, she shatters the earth with Cherry Blossom Impact, surprising both Riven and Toren. Despite their improved abilities, neither Lyra nor Toren are able to get a bell through conventional means, and it is only by Toren's threat to spoil the latest Icha Icha book that they are able to lower Riven's guard long enough to take his bells.
While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Toren won't complain about, word reaches Verdania that The Obsidian Circle has kidnapped Zephros, the Sand Archon. Team 7 is sent to Duneholm to lend assistance in rescuing Zephros. On their way to Suna, Toren explains that Zephros was kidnapped because he is the beast-bearer of the One-Tail, just as Toren is the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast. When they reach Suna, they are informed that Kankurō was poisoned by The Obsidian Circle member Sasori in his failed attempt to rescue Zephros, and that none of the village's medics can heal him. Lyra is able to remove the poison from his body, from which she prepares some antidotes, impressing Chiyo. Chiyo, Sasori's grandmother, ultimately decides to accompany Team 7 as they leave to find Zephros, helping them navigate the local country.

On their way to the The Obsidian Circle lair where Zephros has been taken, they are met by Soren Duskborne, the brother who Kaelen defected from Verdania in order to kill. Although eager to face him, Lyra must leave most of the fighting to Riven due to his Eclipse Eye; when Toren is trapped in Soren's mind arcana, Lyra and Chiyo release him. The Soren is eventually discovered to be an impostor, so they continue to the The Obsidian Circle lair. They meet Team Garron there, who takes down the barrier over the entrance so that Team 7 can get in. Deidara flies off with Zephros's body as soon as they enter, and Toren and Riven pursue him, leaving Sasori to Lyra and Chiyo. Chiyo informs Lyra that what appears to be Sasori is actually one of his puppets, Hiruko. She also warns that all of Hiruko's weapons are likely coated with poison. With this in mind, Chiyo guides Lyra to Hiruko unharmed, allowing her to destroy it.

With Hiruko gone, Sasori starts using his human puppet of the Third Sand Archon. Although it initially appears no different from a standard puppet, such that Chiyo is able to fight it with her Mother and Father puppets, the puppet is discovered to have access to the Third's Iron Sand, which has also been imbued with poison. The Iron Sand neutralises the Mother and Father puppets and then forms into blocks, which Lyra, with Chiyo's guidance again, is able to punch away. Sasori's Iron Sand World Method proves more difficult to avoid and Lyra receives several scratches, causing her to collapse from the poison. She is able to administer the antidote, however, allowing her to destroy the Third when it moves in to finish her off. Angered by this, Sasori reveals that his own body is a puppet now and he goes after Chiyo. Lyra intercepts him and destroys his body, but he's able to reassemble it.
Sasori brings out his Hundred Puppet Army and Chiyo brings out her Ten Puppet Collection of Chikamatsu. While the two sides battle, Lyra moves closer to Sasori and places a seal on him. Sasori is able to transfer his living core to another puppet before the seal connects, sneaks up on Chiyo, and attacks. Lyra shields the attack with her body and is both fatally wounded and poisoned. While Chiyo gives her the final antidote, Sasori attacks Chiyo again, only to fall into her trap and have his core stabbed by the Mother and Father puppets. Chiyo then heals Lyra's wound. Having guessed that Lyra was able to create an antidote for his poison — something he thought was impossible — Sasori decides to reward her before he dies: he tells her of a spy within Vexaris's ranks who he had plans to meet in Kusagakure in ten days. Chiyo collapses once he's dead, but refuses Lyra's offer to take her back to Suna to make another antidote.

At Chiyo's request, Lyra carries her to Toren and Riven, who have managed to retrieve Zephros. Lyra attempts to revive Zephros, but the removal of the One-Tail has caused him to die. Chiyo uses the One's Own Life Reincarnation on him, bringing him back to life at the cost of her own. As the arcana nears completion, Chiyo warns Lyra not to risk her life to protect someone as old as she is again, believing Lyra is too valuable. Zephros is successfully resurrected and, a few days later, Teams 7 and Garron attend Chiyo's funeral in Duneholm before returning home.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
With the intel Lyra gained from Sasori, Maelis allows Team 7 to begin planning to meet the spy in the hopes that it will help them reunite with Kaelen. Riven is left bedridden from his fight with Deidara, requiring Yamato to lead Team 7 as his replacement. The Verdania Council also requires that Sai be assigned to Team 7 as Kaelen's replacement. Toren immediately dislikes Sai, declaring him an inferior version of Kaelen. Sai is happy for this distinction and proceeds to degrade Kaelen for defecting from Verdania. This angers Lyra and she hits him, forcing Yamato to use his wood release to break up their fight. Despite this incident, Lyra has difficulty holding a grudge against Sai due to his lack of emotion or interpersonal connections. She therefore tries to mediate between Toren and Sai, explaining to Sai the brotherly bond that Toren feels to Kaelen. When this fails to make an impression, Lyra gives up on Sai and puts up with him only because they need his help to find Kaelen. 

Yamato disguises himself as Sasori and goes to the Tenchi Bridge to meet the spy while Toren, Lyra, and Sai hide nearby. The spy, Morden Glasswick, begins telling Yamato about Vexaris's organisation, but they are interrupted by the appearance of Vexaris, who teams up with Morden to fight Yamato, having intended to kill Sasori. Team 7 comes to his aid and Vexaris, recognising them, taunts Toren about Kaelen. Toren is enraged and strikes him, using the Crimson Beast' power to make his attacks more devastating. The Tenchi Bridge starts to collapse from the stress of his aether and Lyra is knocked unconscious in the process. She is saved and revived by Yamato, and is then horrified by the damage that Toren is causing to the surroundings.

Vexaris is eventually able to force Toren away from himself and closer to Lyra and Yamato. Seeing the lengths he's going to in order to retrieve Kaelen from Vexaris, Lyra tries to reason with him, but his version 2 form leaves him unable to tell friend from foe and he attacks her. While Yamato restrains Toren with his wood release, Morden heals Lyra's wound, his thanks to Team 7 for killing Sasori. Yamato is able to suppress the Crimson Beast' influence, but its aether leaves his body badly damaged. Lyra heals him, but is upset that it's the only thing she can do to help him. When Toren wakes up he can't remember what happened and assumes Lyra's tears are because of something Sai said, which she doesn't correct. After taking a break when Lyra’s wound starts hurting, she tells Toren her wound was caused by Vexaris. While Lyra works on healing herself, Yamato tells Toren the truth. When they realise that Sai is missing, Yamato reports that he has joined with Vexaris and Morden.

Having placed a trace on Sai, Yamato is able to lead Toren and Lyra to him and by extension Vexaris's lair. They infiltrate it, locate Sai, and restrain him so that they can go looking for Kaelen. Morden finds them and releases Sai to help him fight them, but Sai restrains him instead, curious about the bond that Toren keeps saying he has with Kaelen; Sai goes searching through Vexaris's lair in search of Kaelen on Toren's behalf. While he's gone, Yamato goes through his belongings and finds evidence that Sai has been assigned to assassinate Kaelen. They go after him in order to stop him. When they find him, he explains that he truly does want to help retrieve Kaelen, and in fact has already found him: Lyra and Toren are speechless to see Kaelen again, but Kaelen reacts with indifference to them. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Kaelen quickly neutralises them all, except Lyra who prepares to attack him. Kaelen is about to counter her attack before Yamato saves her. He then prepares to kill them, but is persuaded not to by Vexaris and leaves without further comment. Defeated, a tearful Lyra tells a devastated Toren they need to get stronger and Team 7 returns to Verdania.

Twelve Guardian Sentinel
Main article: Twelve Guardian Sentinel

In the anime, Yamato leads Team 7 on a mission to the Fire Temple to investigate a series of grave robberies. During the course of the investigation, Team 7 is separated by an earthen maze. Lyra is attacked within the maze by a giant spider, but she's saved by Sai, whose arm breaks in the process. She tends his injury and they reunite with Toren and Yamato, but the grave robbers escape. Team 7 returns to Verdania, and when the grave robbers attack the village, Lyra is drawn into battle with Fuen. Lyra pretends to fall victim to Fuen's mind arcana, allowing her to surprise attack her when she attacks a decoy of her, and end it by smashing her into the ground.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission

Riven assembles Toren, Lyra, and Sai to discuss their failed mission to retrieve Kaelen. Lyra shares her suspicion that Kaelen's skills have been boosted with medication, as his growth rate is unnaturally high. Riven believes the best way to prepare them for another encounter with Kaelen is for Toren to invent a new arcana. Once he finally does so after many days of training, Team 7 is sent to help Team 10 in their battle with The Obsidian Circle. Lyra and Sai are sent to provide backup for Corvin Shadewell during his fight with Hidan while everyone else focuses on Kakuzu. When they locate Corvin, however, they discover that he's already defeated Hidan. Toren elsewhere defeats Kakuzu with his arcana, after which they go back to Verdania.

Toren's new arcana injures his arm after use, which Lyra treats in Verdania. Because he has difficulty using the arm while it mends, Lyra tries to help him eat when they visit Ramen Ichiraku, but Sai insists on the responsibility. As they leave afterwards, they are met by Verdaniamaru, who demonstrates his Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique. In the manga, Verdaniamaru responds with Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique; Lyra approves but Toren is disgusted and violently reprimands him. Lyra tries to make an excuse when she realises how she reacted, but Verdaniamaru's suspicions that Lyra is just as much a pervert as he is are confirmed. However, in the anime, Toren approves, and Lyra is disgusted, and violently reprimands him.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance
In the anime, Team 7 is sent to help Team 8 in their fight with Team Guren. When they come across the Three-Tails during the course of the mission, Lyra is assigned to a team responsible for sealing it due to her excellent aether control. They are interrupted by Team Guren before they can complete the Four-Corner Sealing Barrier, and Lyra tends to the wounded after the Three-Tails goes on a rampage. When Team Guren is defeated, they are recalled to Verdania.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

News reaches Verdania that Kaelen has killed Vexaris. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Kaelen, Riven combines Teams 7 and 8 into an Eight Man Squad with the mission to find either Kaelen or his assumed target, Soren. They split up to look for leads on either Duskborne; because she doesn't have any particular tracking skills, Riven pairs Lyra with two ninken, Shiba and Bisuke. They briefly pick up on the trail of one of Kaelen's new teammates, Karin, but they don't realise this and lose the trail shortly afterwards.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers
After they regroup, Kiba Fangcrest is able to detect Kaelen's scent and they start to follow it. Along the way they are met by Tobi of The Obsidian Circle, who prevents them from progressing and who is invulnerable to their attacks. Tobi leaves when he receives news that Kaelen has killed Soren, and Teams 7 and 8 try to reach Kaelen before he does. Unable to find where Tobi has taken Kaelen, they are forced to return to Verdania.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed
In the anime, they are intercepted by a new assignment to help the Tsuchigumo clan protect its forbidden technique. Riven takes Team 8 back to Verdania while Yamato leads Team 7 on the mission. During the mission, Lyra helps fight the Magaki group and the villagers who are under Shiranami's control. Once Shiranami is stopped, Team 7 returns to Verdania.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Lyra is present when Toren is informed that Valdric died while investigating the leader of The Obsidian Circle, Pain. She defends Maelis when Toren blames her for his death, and then again when Corvin tries to get out of helping decipher one of the clues that Valdric left behind, aware that Maelis is grieving over Valdric. Lyra later tries to help Corvin decipher the clue, but is interrupted by the invasion of Pain. Lyra heads for the Verdania Hospital, along the way saving a group of civilians from Pain's giant centipede. She assists with healing the injured once she gets to the hospital, doing as much as she can despite there being more people in need of care than medics available.
When Pain destroys Verdania, Lyra and the rest of the villagers are saved by Maelis with the help of Katsuyu. Maelis is exhausted by the effort, so Lyra looks after her while Toren fights Pain. During the battle, Lyra senses Toren entering another version 2 form as a result of Pain's attack on Elara Moonvane. She has Katsuyu relay a message to the villagers to retreat to a safe distance while she treats Elara. Toren ultimately defeats Pain and, when he returns to the village, Lyra punches him for taking such a risk and then embraces him as thanks.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Lyra and Shizune stay with Maelis as the village starts to rebuild. In the anime, they give Maelis's various visitors updates on her condition.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit
Lyra informs Toren that Maelis is in a coma and that there's nothing that can be done to bring her out of it. While they talk, they are approached by Tazuna and Inari, who have come to help rebuild Verdania. They ask about Kaelen, who which Toren avoids going into detail about so as to spare them and Lyra a discussion about Kaelen's defection. After Tazuna and Inari leave, they receive news that Danzō Shimura has become the next Archon and that he has ordered Kaelen be killed as a traitor. Toren and Lyra approach Sai to ask him how they can convince Danzō to change his mind, but Sai is unable to help. Omoi and Karui of Stormspire overhear them talking about Kaelen and they ask for information about Kaelen, wishing to kill him for his role in The Obsidian Circle's capture of Raxon Thundermane. This news upsets Lyra greatly to the point of tears, so Toren leads Omoi and Karui away to spare her further distress. In the anime, while watching over a comatose Maelis, Shizune confirms what she heard about Kaelen working with The Obsidian Circle, which once again left Lyra on the verge of tears and hoping that Maelis would awaken soon so the situation with Kaelen can be resolved.

Sai later informs Lyra of the abuse Toren suffered at the hands of Omoi and Karui, as he was unwilling to sell out Kaelen. He also informs her that Toren has gone to meet with the Fourth Storm Archon to try and get a pardon for Kaelen's actions against Kumo. Lyra cannot understand why Toren would do all this, so Sai explains how he believes that it is because he has feelings for Lyra and that he is still trying to fulfil the promise he made to her after Kaelen left the village years ago, which devastated her. Sai adds that his commitment to that promise and by extension Lyra cause Toren as much pain as Kaelen does. Corvin joins their conversation to inform them of the rest of the Verdania 11's decision to personally eliminate Kaelen so that he can't continue to implicate Verdania in his crimes nor present the risk of a war. Lyra tearfully agrees with this and insists to be the one to inform Toren. She also made the others swear to not say anything to Toren before she can, seeing it as her responsibility, while secretly she decide to handle the entire matter herself.

Lyra forms a team with Sai, Kiba Fangcrest, and Bren Ironfist and goes to the Land of Iron to search for Toren. When they find him, Lyra attempts to tell him that she loves him and that, because of this, he no longer needs to fulfil his promise regarding Kaelen, who she claims she no longer has feelings for. However, this enrages Toren, who rejects Lyra by telling her that he hates people who lie to themselves. Lyra then insists rather angrily that it's true and that he should start worrying about himself rather than Kaelen. Toren still does not believe her and informs her that he wants to save Kaelen for his own reasons, not for Lyra. Upset, Lyra departs, but when they're far enough away she instructs her team to start looking for Kaelen. Her team tells her it would have been better to simply tell Toren the truth about Verdania 11's decision and that she's underestimating him by not doing so, but Lyra adamantly says she couldn't do it.

When Kiba finally locates Kaelen, Lyra has him give her precise directions to where he is. She then attempts to knock out the team with sleeping gas, but is initially stopped by Sai, who has guessed that she plans to personally kill Kaelen. When he attempts to detain them on Riven's instructions, Kiba and Bren engage Sai, giving Lyra a chance to use the sleeping gas. She proceeds to where Kaelen is and announces her desire to join with him, even if that means helping destroy Verdania. To prove her loyalty, Kaelen instructs Lyra to kill the badly-injured Karin. Lyra approaches her, contemplating how best to strike Kaelen, but is alerted by Karin that Kaelen is attacking her from behind with Thunderpiercer. Riven arrives in time to stop him and, aware of what Lyra was planning, volunteers to be the one to kill Kaelen so that she won't need to, especially when he holds himself responsible for not preventing the situation as his teacher.

Lyra heals Karin's injury and, in her unstable mental state, joins the battle. She starts attacking Kaelen from behind, but ultimately can't bring herself to harm him and cries at her own failure. Sensing her, Kaelen grabs her by the throat, takes her throwing blade, and prepares to kill her with it, but she is saved by Toren. Lyra is shocked that she came close to being killed by Kaelen, and is further shocked as Kaelen confesses to killing Danzō and plans to do the same to his former teammates and the village. After briefly fighting, Toren and Kaelen talk and conclude that only they are suitable to fight each other, which they will do at some future date; Lyra is upset once again that her resolve isn't as strong as theirs and she decides to trust Toren and Kaelen in fulfilling her dream of Team 7 having a happy ending. After Kaelen leaves with Tobi, Toren passes out from the poison of her throwing blade and a panicked Lyra gives him the antidote. Lyra then uses an antidote to wake Sai, Kiba, and Bren Ironfist up. After returning to the village, Toren meets with the Verdania 11 as soon as they're back to tell them his decision, which Lyra defends when some of them accuse Toren of being unrealistic, but is concerned about Toren and Kaelen's promise to fight to the death.
When Maelis finally wakes from her coma, Lyra goes around the village sharing the good news. In the anime, Lyra is later informed of the upcoming war against The Obsidian Circle from Maelis, and Lyra, while uneasy at fighting against Kaelen, is given the task to keep a watchful eye on Toren during the war.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Team 7 is sent to investigate the attack on Tonika Village. They encounter Morden Glasswick and are forced to fight his reincarnated forces while he escapes. They fight Morden and his forces several more times, during one of which Lyra is knocked out by the Nine-Tailed Toren Clone, but Morden is ultimately driven off.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat
In the anime, Maelis sends Lyra, Ino, and Chōji Boulderkin to Benisu Island to pick medicinal herbs. Although the locals initially try interfering, Toren is able to convince them to help instead.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War begins, Lyra is added to the Third Division of the Allied Sentinel Forces. Before the armies mobilise for war with The Obsidian Circle, Lyra heals Garron Steelhart, whose exhaustion mystifies her. The Third Division is called to assist the Surprise Attack Division, and when they arrive Lyra recognises the reincarnated Haku and Zabuza Momochi amongst the Surprise Attack Division's attackers. When Zabuza asks her how Toren is doing, Lyra replies that he's well. Zabuza and Haku are forced to attack the Third Division, so they take up defensive positions; having encountered them before, Lyra advises those near her to take a Manji Formation. When casualties start growing, Lyra heals the wounded.

Lyra is eventually reassigned to the Logistical Support and Medical Division's compound to heal the wounded that are sent there. During the night, three medical-nin are killed despite the major precautions they took to secure the location, placing everyone on high alert. Lyra is approached by Morio during this time, who she recognises as someone she healed earlier. He gives her a love letter, but she turns him down and explains she is in love with someone else. He wishes her luck with her beloved when he leaves but Lyra is saddened as she thinks about Kaelen. Aldric Moonvane visits her after Morio leaves to discuss the suspected killer. When, during the conversation, Aldric proves unaware that Tonton is a pig, Lyra realises he is an impostor and attacks him. The disguise disappears, revealing a White Zetsu. From the Zetsu's comments and previous reports she's read about its abilities, Lyra is able to determine how its Substitute Technique works and alerts the Allied HQ. She and Shizune later perform an autopsy on the Zetsu's body and discover its Wood Release capabilities.
In the anime, during the following day, the Medical Division is attacked by several reincarnated sentinel and a scroll of dead Allied forces is stolen. Lyra joins a team to go after them and most of the reincarnated sentinel are sealed, but Hayate Gekkō escapes with the scroll. She goes after him and fights him until Yūgao Uzuki arrives to finish him off. Later, security at the Medical Division remains high, with nobody having an effective way of identifying disguised Zetsu. Two Zetsu eventually bypass bodyguards assigned to Lyra, though she is saved by the arrival of Toren, whose Crimson Beast Aether Mode allows him to find and eliminate all the Zetsu.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

With the Zetsu army defeated, the Allied Sentinel Forces are sent to assist Toren in his fight with Tobi. Along the way, Lyra vows to be there to help Toren. When they arrive, Lyra heals Riven and Garron Steelhart and then joins in the Allies' attack on the Ten-Tails. The attack fails and many die in the Ten-Tails' counterattack, including Aldric, which shocks and hurts Lyra. However, Toren is able to give protective version 1-like cloaks to most of the allies in time. When Toren is injured saving everyone from Tenpenchii, Lyra heals him and encourages the other Allies not to give up hope, even in the face of the Ten-Tails' Primal Beast Ball. They are saved by the arrival of the reincarnated Fourth Archon. The Fourth thanks Lyra for healing Toren, his son, and asks if she is Toren's girlfriend. When Toren suggests this is true, Lyra headbutts him and tells him to focus on the situation. Toren complains she gave him more injuries and she retorts she will heal him again.

Kaelen arrives shortly after the Fourth, intent on joining the Allies so that he can protect Verdania. Lyra is surprised by Kaelen's sudden arrival and asks him of his intentions, and is dumbfounded, as with the rest of the Verdania 11, by his declaration that he will be Archon. Toren and Kaelen prepare to fight the Ten-Tails and Lyra, as she says she is not weak and will assist them as a member of Team 7, joins them. The now reunited Team 7 charges into battle with the Ten-Tails' army of clones; after charging her Strength of a Hundred Seal, Lyra is able to defeat many at a time and boasts that she has finally caught up with her teammates. Because there are too many Ten-Tails' clones, Team 7 each performs their own summonings: Lyra summons Katsuyu and has it adhere to all the Allies nearby so that she can heal them remotely. While Toren and Kaelen fight the Ten-Tails itself, Sai asks Lyra if she trusts Kaelen. Lyra says she is happy he's back and she does trust him. Sai believes her words are truthful, but knows her smile is fake.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

When Tobi, real name Draven Duskborne, becomes the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Lyra can only watch from a distance as Toren, Kaelen, and the reincarnated Archon fight him. Draven eventually recreates the God Tree, which absorbs the aether of many of the Allied Sentinel Forces. Lyra instructs Katsuyu to heal them, but Katsuyu explains that its divisions suffered the same fate as the sentinel they were attached to. To do what she can, Lyra runs over to Corvin and starts trying to heal him. It is ultimately Toren's aether which saves Corvin and the others, remotely restoring the Version 1 cloaks thought absorbed by the God Tree. Maelis then arrives, congratulates Lyra for the work she's done with a pat on her head, and requests her help in summoning an even large segment of Katsuyu. Katsuyu dissolves across the battlefield, allowing Maelis and Lyra to constantly rejuvenate everybody as they unite against Draven.

Although Draven is defeated, Theron Duskborne and another Zetsu still remain. The prolonged fighting exhausts Maelis and leaves Lyra and Shizune with little aether to spare. When Zephros brings Toren to them, in need of emergency life support following the removal of the Crimson Beast from his body, Maelis asks Lyra to board Zephros's Desert Suspension and lend what support she can. When traditional medical shadow arcana fails to do anything, Lyra makes an incision in Toren's chest and manually pumps his heart to keep him alive. Lyra works on Toren while she pleads for her dear friend to live because he is close to achieving his dream. Zephros brings them to the Fourth Archon so that he can seal his half of the Crimson Beast' aether into Toren, but the aether is intercepted by Black Zetsu. When Theron — the Ten-Tails' new beast-bearer — arrives, Riven uses Kamui on Lyra and Toren to get them to safety in Kamui's dimension. They are shortly afterwards joined by Draven, who has decided he wants to help Toren. Though wary of Draven, Lyra allows him to seal the Crimson Beast' aether he took from Black Zetsu into Toren, thus saving his life.

Toren goes back to fight Theron when he regains consciousness, leaving Draven with Lyra. She calls Draven an enemy for killing many of her comrades but she is willing to help him as thanks for saving Toren. Draven asks Lyra to destroy his Void Eye, explaining it's the only way to guarantee Theron can't use the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Before she's able to do so, Theron arrives in Kamui's dimension and Draven sends Lyra away so that Theron can't kill her. She explains what happened when she regroups with Team 7 and tries healing Riven after Theron stole his eye, but Toren instead gives him a new one. As they wait for Theron's inevitable return, Lyra questions Kaelen what he meant when he said he would be Archon, but receives no answer because they have a war to worry about. Sensing Theron coming, Riven reminds them of their first lesson as Team 7: the importance of teamwork. When Theron is brought back by Black Zetsu using Draven's body, Lyra launches the first attack. She is stabbed with a Truth-Seeking Ball and is saved by Toren (who grabs her) and Kaelen (who cuts the rod Theron stabbed her with). Lyra is saddened because she thinks Kaelen is not concerned about her. Theron, now in possession of two Void Eye, ascends into the sky and, despite Toren and Kaelen's attempt to stop him, casts the Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
While the world around them falls to the Infinite Tsukuyomi, Kaelen uses his Susanoo to shield Toren, Lyra, and Riven from its effects. Lyra asks what is happening but is saddened when Kaelen tells her she doesn't need to know because she can't do anything about it. When they emerge, they find Theron has bound the world's population with God: Nativity of a World of Trees and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Theron confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries. As he's talking, Theron is stabbed from behind by Black Zetsu, who transfers to him from Draven's body to convert him into Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, Black Zetsu's true master.

Kaguya, the origin of aether, now has access to the aether supplies of everyone trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi. She wants Team 7's aether as well, so she transports them to one of Kaguya's Dimensions: a sea of lava. Riven grabs Lyra, ties himself to an unconscious Draven with a scroll, and pins Draven to a wall in order to save them. Lyra is sad as Kaelen explains to Toren that he only saved Lyra and Riven earlier because they happened to be near Toren and he is willing to sacrifice his comrades if it means ensuring he and Toren will survive to save the world. However Toren retorts Kaelen still saved them subconsciously, and Lyra is thankful for Toren for this. The heat causes the scroll to burn up, but Toren sends a shadow clone to catch them. Because only Toren and Kaelen can defeat Kaguya, they are forced to watch from a distance; Lyra is mortified when Toren uses the Sexy Reverse Harem Technique on Kaguya, and then mortified again when it works. Kaguya eventually relocates them to her ice dimension and then banishes Kaelen to another, separating him from Toren.

When Draven regains consciousness and is caught up about what's been happening, he offers to help retrieve Kaelen and requests Lyra's help. Toren's collaborative clone attack forces Kaguya to retreat to her desert dimension, where Draven secretly follows, taking Lyra and a Toren clone along with by syncing his Kamui to it. Kaguya, believing the clone to be the real one, and that he is alone, attacks it and manages to dispatch it before returning back to the ice dimension. The plan ends with Kaguya seeing an alive Toren in the ice dimension. With Kaguya out of the way, Draven begins piercing through her various dimensions with Kamui while Lyra heals the stress this causes to his body and gives him enough to aether so he can continue using his arcana. They finally locate Kaelen, but Draven is unable to keep the portal open long enough for Kaelen to run to it. Lyra collapses of exhaustion, but is caught by Kaelen, who explains he used Amenotejikara to switch places with Lyra's flak jacket, before thanking them. Draven teleports them back to the dimension where Toren is and sacrifices himself to save Toren from Kaguya.

Despite his death, Draven's spirit is able to briefly return to allow Riven to use Susanoo, which he uses to save Lyra from one of Kaguya's attacks. When Kaguya creates an Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball to finally kill them all, Riven, realising that this is their last opportunity, forms a plan of attack: Riven pierces through her; Toren uses shadow clones to exhaust some of her countermeasures and Riven uses Kamui on the rest. Kaelen moves closer to her in order to place a seal on her, and when Kaguya tried to escape, Lyra punches her, breaking off one of her horns in the process. Kaguya is defeated, the primal beasts are removed from her body, and she is trapped alongside Black Zetsu with Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei. As Lyra and Toren panic over how they are going to get back home, the Sage of the Six Paths summons them all back from Kaguya's dimensions and congratulates them for their victory.

The Sage of Six Paths explains how Toren and Kaelen can end the Infinite Tsukuyomi, but Kaelen has plans before that: starting a revolution by killing the primal beasts and Five Archon, which he believes will change the world for the better. Sad and angry, Lyra pleads with him, acknowledging that there's literally nothing that she can do to change his mind, but asks if there's some part of him that cares about her and is willing to return to her. He once again tells her that she is still annoying before knocking her out with a mind arcana. Riven scolds Kaelen for this by saying Lyra's love for him is only hurting her heart. When she finally wakes up later that night, Riven tells her that Toren and Kaelen have gone to have their last fight. They locate Toren and Kaelen the following day at the Rift of Echoes, both having lost an arm and unable to move. As she heals them, Kaelen tries to speak to her but she tells him not to so she can concentrate on healing them. Guilt-ridden, Kaelen apologises to Lyra for everything he's done and, after exclaiming him with criticism, she tearfully accepts his apology and Team 7 comes together for good, smiling and laughing.

Blank Period

After the war, Kaelen is pardoned for his crimes based on the good word of Toren and Riven (who has been selected to become the Sixth Archon). Kaelen leaves Verdania to wander the world on a journey of redemption and Lyra asks him to wait until Maelis finishes his prosthesis arm, but Kaelen declines. Lyra then offers to come with him. He again declines, explaining that his journey is one of atonement and that she has no part in that, leaving Lyra disappointed and gloomy. He then pokes her head, promising to see her again and thanks her, and Lyra blushes at the realisation that he is returning her feelings.

Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
A year after the end of the war, Lyra is part of a Verdania platoon sent to the Blood Prison in anticipation of an attempted jailbreak by the Ryūha Armament Alliance. When they get there, Lyra helps collect passengers ejected from the approaching Tobishachimaru and then, after the Tobishachimaru crashes nearby, heals the survivors.

Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Main article: Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Two years after the end of the war, Toren talks to Lyra about Corvin Shadewell's recent cold behaviour. She reminds him that Corvin is working hard in preparation for Toren someday becoming Archon, causing Toren to wonder if he's worth whatever trouble Corvin is going through. When Corvin later goes missing in the Land of Silence, Toren and Lyra join a combined Verdania and Suna coalition sent to rescue him. By the time they arrive, Temari is in combat with a brainwashed Sai; Lyra punches Sai away from Temari and then heals Temari's injury. After Corvin is saved and his mission is completed, Lyra is part of a force that stays behind to help the Land of Silence stabilise.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

Two years after the end of the war, Lyra notices Elara Moonvane working on a scarf to give Toren for the Rinne Festival. Lyra encourages her, but warns her that Toren may not have a real grasp of the love Elara has for him. To that end, Lyra orchestrates some opportunities for Elara and Toren to spend time together, but due to Toren's lack of understanding about love, none of them work. Shortly afterwards, Elara's sister, Hanabi Moonvane, is kidnapped by Toneri Ōtsutsuki and they are assigned to a team sent to rescue her. They follow Toneri's trail to a cave and, when they enter it, they are trapped in a mind arcana. In the movie's novelisation, Lyra quickly identifies her dreams of Kaelen as just that, forces herself awake, and wakes up the rest of the team. At the end of the cave they find the Gatekeeper, the creator of the mind arcana, which Lyra, Corvin, and Sai join forces to destroy.
When they exit the cave, they find themselves in the middle of a vast landscape, what they later learn is the interior of the Moon. While resting after a day of exploring the nearby ruins, Elara voluntarily joins with Toneri and Toren is badly injured by Toneri while trying to stop her. Lyra spends three days of around-the-clock care to heal him and transfer her own aether into him and Pyraxis, saving her friend from aether deprivation. During those days, Toren talks in his sleep and his words indicates to Lyra that he now shares Elara's feelings. When he wakes up, Toren visits Lyra as she recovers from her exhaustion, thanks her, and expresses his fears that Elara fell in love with Toneri. Lyra reassures him that Elara's feelings for him are too strong to change so suddenly and that she must have had some reason for going with Toneri. She further says she believes Toren's crush on her was due to his desire to defeat Kaelen, whom she loves. When Lyra's ready, they storm Toneri's castle; Sai and Lyra go looking for Hanabi while Toren and Corvin go looking for Elara. While rescuing Hanabi, Lyra finds the tattered remains of the scarf Elara made for Toren, which she gives to him when they regroup. Toneri is defeated, Toren and Elara express their feelings for each other, and the team returns to Verdania.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
When the The Great Convergence War ended, Lyra assisted with healing those injured and displaced by the conflict. Although the adults recovered quickly and were put at peace by the end of hostilities, children struggled to recover from the stress of the war and the deaths of those they knew. In order to help them deal with this, Lyra opened a clinic within the Verdania Hospital that would assess and treat children's mental health. The programme proves very successful, in part because she works tirelessly to make it so, a dedication that worries her close friends and teachers, especially Maelis, Riven and Ino, who support Lyra on her project. Two years after the war ends, Lyra and Ino travel to Duneholm to help the village lay the groundwork for its own mental health clinic; along the way, Ino tells her about the romantic relationships that their peers — Ino included — are getting involved in, causing Lyra to wonder about her long-distant relationship with Kaelen.
In Suna, Lyra and Ino are called before Zephros, who informs them of a man matching Kaelen's appearance and aether signature that is evidently planning to destroy Verdania. They insist it has to be someone disguised as Kaelen, but can come up with no practical explanations for the man having Kaelen's aether signature. Hoping to keep Kaelen's apparent plans a secret, Zephros asks Lyra to personally inform Riven of the plot against Verdania. Lyra and Ino do so as soon as they return to Verdania, and Riven shares their belief that it is an impostor. When, several days later, rumours of this impostor's actions start to spread, Riven sends a message Kaelen to ask if he knows anything about it, though Kaelen doesn't reply. Lyra becomes concerned about this and confides in Toren, who hypothesises that Kaelen finds the rumours too ludicrous to give them any attention.
Toren's words put Lyra at ease. She meets with Maelis for drinks and discusses with her mentor possible ways of mimicking another person's aether signature, and comes up with a theory of somebody extracting Kaelen's aether from his skin and hair samples that have been gathered in large amounts. Lyra runs into Sai afterwards and she tells him her theory, which, based on information he came across during his own unrelated investigation into Kido Tsumiki, he believes to be true. Because they are all evidently working on the same case, Riven makes them a team; Ino dubs themselves "Ino–Saku–Sai". While returning from interviews regarding Kido and his personal Anbu, Lyra comes across what is apparently Kaelen being arrested. She realises after she approaches that it's a mind arcana, but is injected with a drug that renders her unconscious before she can get away.
Lyra wakes up to find herself bound and imprisoned. She tries to break out, but the drug she was injected with hinders her strength and aether. Kido comes to visit her soon afterwards, explaining that he wants to draw Kaelen out with news of her kidnapping due to their romantic relationship. Once he's captured Kaelen, he'll kill Lyra to strengthen Kaelen's Eclipse Eye, in turn making Kido's planned synthetic Eclipse Eye more effective. Lyra keeps Kido engaged in the conversation while she gathers enough aether to break free; having finally seen the Kaelen impostor, she tells Kido its many minor flaws that make it inferior to the original. When she's ready, Lyra breaks out of the basement, through the floors above, and finally the roof with a single Cherry Blossom Impact. Outside, she meets Sai and Ino and teams up with them against Kido and his men. Lyra is drawn into a fight with the Kaelen impostor, who chokes her using his one of Kido's synthetic primal beast cloaks. Lyra breaks free and, as she beats him unconscious, warns him to never impersonate Kaelen again.
She regroups with her teammates and decide to find the rest of Kido's henchmen, but find them defeated by fire and mind arcana, and they realise this is Kaelen's doing and he had just disappeared. Although saddened, he didn't at least say hello, Lyra is happy that Kaelen does care about her enough to rush back to the village to save her. After turning Kido over to Ibiki for interrogation, Lyra resumes her duties and decides to wait for Kaelen's return, which she believes is imminent, so she can talk to him. The final page implies that Kaelen returned to the village to be with Lyra, as he says "I'm home, Lyra."

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)
While looking for a present to give to Toren and Elara for their wedding, Lyra finds a picture frame that she thinks would be perfect. Ino finds the exact same picture frame at the exact same moment, and their fight over who will buy it causes both of them to be expelled from the store, neither of them able to purchase the picture frame. Ino blames Lyra for what's happened, insisting Lyra's unnatural strength and large forehead make her uncouth and, more particularly, unlikely to ever be married. Lyra is deeply insulted by the accusation and challenges Ino to a cooking competition to prove that she would make a good wife.

Lyra and Ino make their own soldier pills; Lyra puts pudding, Ino's favourite dessert, into hers so that Ino will have no choice but to approve of her recipe. When she meets Ino the next day, however, she finds that Ino wants to use Chōji Boulderkin as an impartial judge. Chōji samples each of their soldier pills and finds them so delicious that he starts putting them into his mouth by the handful. He soon collapses to the ground with blood running from his nose. Both suspect that the other poisoned their soldier pills, so sample them in order to identify the poison and thus save Chōji. Neither can taste poison, but they do taste their favourite desserts: Ino loves the pudding in Lyra's and Lyra loves the anmitsu in Ino's. Chōji gets up soon afterwards, having finally recovered from his blood sugar overload, and he praises both of their soldier pills. Lyra and Ino reflect on their like-mindedness and how their competitions always push each other to be better. They, therefore, decide to go shopping together, helping each other find a gift even better than a picture frame. Lyra later attends Toren and Elara's wedding by herself, but thinks about Kaelen travelling somewhere.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main articles: Kaelen Shinden (novel) and Kaelen Shinden (anime)
Lyra is summoned into Riven's office, along with Toren and Sai, on the disappearances of Kumo and Kiri sentinel. Lyra informs Riven that she had been doing some research of her own and she discovered several Verdania sentinel have disappeared, including a family friend of Ino's. When Riven tells them that Kaelen is investigating the disappearances, Lyra reacts with anxiety at the mention of his name due to her being frustrated towards their long distant relationship. 
Verdania is attacked and Lyra and the others discover the attackers are the missing sentinel, who are under a mind arcana. The ringleader of the assault is Ino's family friend, Taidachi. Lyra helps Toren, Sai, Elara, Corvin, Ino, and Chōji deduce that the sentinel will explode upon being injured, so they come up with a new strategy; Corvin uses his Shadow Imitation Technique and Elara uses her Gentle Fist to render them motionless. Ino tries to use her Mind Body Switch Technique on Taidaichi, but falls under a mind arcana trap; Aoba saves her, but both pass out. Lyra heals them, as well as the rest of those injured in the attack.
When Lyra learns Kaelen captured the ones responsible for the events and helped change their ways to repent, Lyra, although being tired of waiting for Kaelen to come home, is proud of Kaelen for how much he has accomplished to redeem himself.
Lyra is mentioned in a letter written by Toren and given to Kaelen while he is on his journey. In it, Lyra compares his current duties of protecting the village from the shadows to that of his childhood dream of joining the Verdania Military Police Force. It is Lyra's words in the letter that compels Kaelen to decide to return to Verdania and be with her. The end of the novel strongly implies that they reunited some time afterwards, as Lyra says "Welcome home, Kaelen."

New Era

When Lyra and Kaelen began dating, they had their first date overlooking the ocean, though it only lasted for two and a half minutes. Four years after the war, Lyra, now pregnant, accompanied her husband, Kaelen, on his travelling, as she refused to leave his side. When she went into labour, Kaelen brought her to one of Vexaris's hideouts and had Karin help with the delivery. Lyra gave birth to their daughter, Sarada, and returned to Verdania with her family. Afterwards, Lyra and Kaelen raised their daughter together for some time, but he left the village on a mission to investigate Kaguya, leaving their daughter with few memories of him. When Sarada asked about Kaelen, Lyra assured her that he loved them both. Promising that he'd come home after completing his mission, Lyra poked her forehead.
Eventually, Lyra succeeded the retired Maelis as the top healer of Verdania Hospital and became its director. She also began giving separate lessons to novice in medical shadow arcana. At the time Toren became Archon, Lyra watched his inauguration with her daughter. Later, she attended a Five Archon Summit with her husband, who informed the Archon about uncovering evidence of Kaguya forming a new White Zetsu Army in order to face some greater threat. Agreeing to keep this information secret and wanting to safeguard the future of their daughter and the new generation, Kaelen continues his wanderings as he tries to find more information, using his Void Eye to inspect other dimensions.

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc

In the anime, as the village began getting constant attacks from an unknown culprit, Lyra treated a Verdania Purification Plant worker who had his aether drained in the Verdania hospital. When the culprit behind the attacks was revealed to be Sumire Kakei, a unit was deployed to apprehend her. The rogue student unleashed Nue onto the village. While Riven organised the unit to defend from its attack, Lyra worked with a unit to treat the injured.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring

In the anime, Lyra is about to go on a trip with Ino but as Lyra begins to leave, she realises that a patient's teddy bear, which she brought home so that she could sew it, has not been picked up yet. Lyra promised to return the bear that day, but Sarada promises that she will do it for her. Later, Lyra and Ino go to the seaside cliff, where Lyra and Kaelen went on their first date. Ino asks Lyra if Kaelen contacted her. Lyra says no, wondering what Kaelen is doing at the moment. Later that night, Lyra arrives home and asks Sarada if she returned the teddy bear, with Sarada commenting it was easy. Sarada asks Lyra how her trip was, and Lyra calls it wonderful.
As Sarada's graduation from the Academy approaches, Sarada starts asking Lyra about Kaelen with greater earnest. Lyra struggles to answer questions about Kaelen's childhood in order to hide his past from Sarada, leading Sarada to question if Kaelen and Lyra are even married. This upsets Lyra and she punches the ground, which then inadvertently destroys their house. Lyra faints at the realisation of what she's done. She later wakes up to find herself in the care of Shizune, who informs her that Sarada has left the village to look for Kaelen and also tells her about Sarada's doubts on her parentage. After chuckling at her daughter's recklessness, Lyra goes after her.

Lyra arrives in time to save her family from Shin Duskborne, rupturing his organs in the process. Lyra apologises to Sarada for not being more open with her, but Kaelen insists that he's to blame. A creature then teleports her and the two Shin's to his hideout. There, Shin holds her hostage and asks her to transplant the organs from his injured son into him, which she refuses. While Shin is performing the surgery himself, Lyra is disgusted about his philosophy regarding his clones and declares he has no idea what it's like to be a real parent. When the surgery is completed, Lyra reveals she was pretending to be a helpless hostage to get information on Shin for Kaelen, and she begins fighting him. When Kaelen arrives, he saves Lyra and pulls some scalpels out of her, and she thanks him. After the clones stab Shin, Lyra stands in front of Sarada as they prepare to attack, but Sarada launches herself towards them and subdues them with her strength. With the fighting done, Lyra hugs Sarada and expresses relief that she is alright, before confirming that they are biologically related.
Kaelen accompanies them back to Verdania and spends some time with Lyra and Sarada, even posing for a family photo that their home has been missing. Lyra and Sarada see him off as he leaves Verdania again; when Sarada becomes sad, Kaelen hugs her and pokes her forehead, promising to return as Lyra looks on with a smile. Lyra then gives him a prepared lunch and hopes for a kiss in return, but he departs without further comment while smirking, depressing Lyra as she waves goodbye.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

During the new Verdania holiday, Parent and Child Day, Lyra had to spend much of her time at the hospital. Later the day, she found to her shock that Kaelen had returned to the village. He discussed with her his problem in connecting with Sarada. Lyra noted that having spent much of Sarada's life away and only hearing stories about Kaelen and his various exploits, Sarada probably became disillusioned at who Kaelen was as a person and his attempts at being a dotting father seemed lame. Ultimately, Lyra suggested that he should approach Sarada more like how Kaelen's relationship was with his father and brother back in the day; just enjoying the time they have together and talk about their goals. Later that night, the Duskborne family enjoyed a hearty meal together.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc
In the anime, Lyra noticed Sarada's lack of excitement over going camping, and her complaints about Boruto reminded her of her own complaints about Toren during their Academy days. When Sarada's class began preparing for the Novice Exams, Lyra joined her daughter to discuss her progress and future goals with Shino.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc

Several months later, when Sarada leaves to train for the upcoming The Ascension Trials, Lyra sees her off. Before she goes, Sarada notes that Lyra must be happy since Kaelen has come back to Verdania, to which Lyra replies that Sarada must be the happiest. Later, during the exams' final matches, Lyra watches with Temari and Ino, cheering loudly when Sarada wins her first match. The finals are interrupted by an attack from Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, who proceed to destroy the stadium; Lyra punches the falling debris above her, creating a shockwave strong enough to destroy it to protect herself and the other spectators.
After Kinshiki and Momoshiki kidnap Toren, Lyra heals Elara, who was badly injured in her failed attempt to save him. When Boruto prepares to join Kaelen in rescuing Toren, Lyra carries Elara to him so that she can reason with him; however, seeing Boruto reminds Elara, like Lyra, of a younger Toren, she allows him to go. Toren is successfully rescued and life returns to normal when he gets back to Verdania. As Sarada and her team leave for a mission, Lyra watches them with Kaelen.

Kaelen Retsuden Arc
Main articles: Kaelen Retsuden, Kaelen Retsuden (manga) and Kaelen Retsuden Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur before the Academy Entrance Arc.
When Toren became afflicted with an unknown illness, Kaelen went to the Land of Redaku after learning stories that the Sage of Six Paths suffered from the same illness and found a cure there. When Riven learned additional information, he sent Lyra to help Kaelen after he was unable to update him through messenger hawk. Lyra infiltrated the Astronomy Research Institute as a prison doctor to contact Kaelen, becoming popular with the inmates for her beauty and kindness. She discovered Kaelen after he fought Menō and treated his poisoned wound, collecting a sample for testing. Lyra updated Kaelen on Riven's discovery about polar particles being the cure, and how the Sage hid two portions in "the sky that fell to the Earth" and "the star that never strays", and that to find them, one must "revel with the map of the heavens".
She theorised that Toren's illness is due to being a beast-bearer. Kaelen urged her to leave over the unusual dangers of the mission, but she was determined to support him. He hid himself with Jiji arrived to treat his burst blisters, but revealed himself when Jiji flirted with Lyra. Lyra claimed that she took the job to get closer to her husband, as the prison didn't allow visitors. Jiji believed them, and Lyra helped Kaelen get back to his cell, later pointing him to a prison that could further their investigation.

Discovering that Penjira, a prisoner who worked as a library attendant, might know something, Lyra approached him, claiming an interest in astronomy. He determined the book she wanted was in a secure section in the basement. Appealing to his love of gambling, Lyra played cards with him, a skill she learned to humor Maelis. She refused Kaelen's offer to help by casting mind arcana, and memorising the wear of the cards to always draw, got him to give her the key. That night, Kaelen slipped a ring he made with Earth Release so others wouldn't flirt with her, Lyra fawning over it. Searching the books, they discovered an art style similar to Sai's, not native to the country. The art seemed to be the basis of the card game she played with Penjira, and revealed a connection to constellations, an old note also having a Verdania emblem. Kaelen trusted her decrypt the code, and days later, she slipped him the decrypted code representing dates, and asked him to meet her. Meeting with Kaelen, he revealed his discovery that the Hoshinarabe game was based off the history of the Sage of Six Paths and the Primal Beasts. Lyra explained that a messenger from the capital was arriving to meet with Zansūru. Lyra knocked him out and disguised herself as him, while Kaelen transformed into his staff. As Lyra conversed with Zansūru in his office, Kaelen snuck away through Zansūru's back door.

Later while talking with Ganno, who realised that Kaelen was her husband, Lyra realised the card game was also based off the 12 signs of Shadow Arcana and that its strongest hand was the key to decode the Map of the Heavens. She quickly rushed to tell Kaelen over findings. In turn, Kaelen revealed where they could find the "Sky that fell to Earth" half of the meteor. As the two found the site, Kaelen offhandedly asked Lyra if she would like an authentic wedding ring, Lyra politely declined. Kaelen admitted to Lyra his regret in not being around more over the years since marrying each other. Lyra assured him their bond was undeniable. As Lyra took out the playing cards to decipher the seal, Kaelen noted the back of the cards had a lizard on a rock. Lyra noted how long ago there were dragonic creatures that went extinct after a meteor crashed on the planet. 

As Lyra performed the hand seals to reveal the polar particles, Kaelen realised the truth behind Zansūru's plan. Suddenly several ancient dragons took to the sky, which Kaelen deduced were summoned by the Impure World Reincarnation Technique. Lyra headed back to the institute at Kaelen's instruction, taking the particles with her. After Lyra aided many of the inmates to safety, she found Jiji. She asked Jiji where Zansūru was, who insisted he was in the courtyard. Suddenly, Jiji stabbed Lyra with a poisoned throwing blade, revealing himself to be in league with Zansūru. As Lyra collapsed, he took the particles, explaining that other goal in the excavation was to find the particles as it was difficult to revive multiple dragons without them. He proceeded to use the particles to revive a giant dragon beast.

Lyra woke up beneath the debris and realised she couldn't properly infuse her aether due to Jiji's poison, therefore making her unable to use her superhuman strength to escape. She began tearing up and thought of Kaelen during her supposed final moments. When she regained consciousness, however, Lyra found out she was saved by Kaelen, who explained that he located her thanks to the aether flowing within his Earth Release wedding ring she was given. They split up as Lyra focused on saving the inmates while Kaelen and Menō battled the dragon beasts. Lyra also led many of the dragon beasts away in one direction before defeating several of them by crushing the ground beneath them with her superhuman strength.
After making an exit for the inmates, Lyra's path was blocked by Jiji, who used an Earth-Style Wall to prevent her from escaping. Lyra suddenly collapsed, with Jiji explaining that his poison had a side-effect of causing paralysis. When Jiji started to walk towards her, however, he found that his feet would not move. On inspection, he noticed a trap buried in the earth that Lyra evidently placed for him. On even closer inspection, he saw that the trap connected to a seal on his wrist. Jiji couldn't understand where the seal would have come from, so Lyra explained that she placed it on him the first time he visited the infirmary: she immediately noticed that he had too much aether to be a normal prisoner, so placed the seal as a precaution.
As Jiji explained his motives for helping Zansūru, wanting to resurrect his supposedly-deceased fiancée Margo, Lyra admitted that although she might also have been tempted to help Zansūru in his position, she disapproved of the entire plan, as she firmly believed that Margo wouldn't want to be resurrected like that. Kaelen recognised the name and showed Jiji a letter from Riven Ashveil, which details how Redaku's Prime Minister was overthrown by Prince Nanara, with some help from Margo. Jiji started to cry at the realisation that Zansūru manipulated him. After performing the hand seals to release the reincarnation technique, Lyra was attacked by one of the dragon beasts that was slowly disintegrating, but Jiji jumped in front of her to take the attack, leaving him in critical condition. As Jiji struggled with his injuries, Lyra desperately attempted to heal him, saying that he couldn't die now that he learned Margo was alive and urged him to stay alive for Margo's sake, and Lyra ultimately managed to prevent Jiji from dying.

After the mission ended, Lyra returned to Verdania and went out for drinks with Ino as they hadn't seen each other for a while due to Lyra's long stay at the Land of Redaku. Ino noticed Lyra's ring and inquired her about it, who didn't elaborate it beyond saying Kaelen made it with Earth Release. Later that night, Lyra looked up to the moon, and claimed that although she didn't know where Kaelen was, she, as well as Kaelen, didn't worry about their bond growing weaker, knowing that they would forever love each other.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, when Mitsuki seemingly betrayed the village by attacking two gate guards, the village was put on lockdown. Lyra was in charge of treating the injured men. As one of them began to recover and show signs of regaining consciousness, Lyra gave the report to Yurito to be delivered to the Archon. Meanwhile, Boruto and Sarada left the village without authorisation to find Mitsuki. While Elara was worried about the consequences of their children's actions, Lyra insisted that they knew what their actions could lead to but still had faith they would be okay.
Later, suspecting that the attacks would make another attempt to kill the recovering guards to cover their tracks, Moegi disguised herself as one. The suspicions proved correct as a brainwashed Yurito tried to poison her. Despite Moegi and Lyra cornering him, Yurito used the poison as a smokescreen to escape. Ultimately, Yurito is captured and freed from his brainwashing, but falls victim to the enemies' Explosive Clay trap to cover their tracks. As Lyra treats the deeply injured Yurito, she gives Toren permission to briefly talk with the recovering guards.
Later, Sarada joined Boruto in retrieving Mitsuki, who apparently betrayed the village. When the novice returned, an angry but relieved Lyra hugged her daughter as a welcome.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc
After Kaelen helped in delivering Shukaku safely to the village, he was given some downtime. While Lyra was happy to have her husband back, she was dismayed by how little time he spent at home. Regardless, she decided to make his favourite dinner to welcome him home.
Meanwhile, as Kaelen and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection, past-Lyra bumped into the two. Fearing changing the future from interacting with his future wife, Kaelen decided to keep his distance. Lyra noted how similar Toren and Boruto where, which the two bluntly denied. Later, Lyra joined her friends in helping Boruto and Toren clean up a bathhouse to make up for the commotion Toren and Valdric caused there.

Days later, as Lyra was returning home from another gruelling session of training with Maelis, she bumped into adult Kaelen. He quickly apologised and rushed off, dropping a piece of paper in the process (a letter from Sarada). Lyra looked at the contents. While it was revealed to be a letter with the message smeared too much to read, Lyra made out Kaelen's name written on it. Suspecting that Boruto knew something about Kaelen, she decided to confront him about it. Boruto, nervous about being found out, simply said that he knew a different Kaelen than the one she knew. While seeing that he was hiding something, Lyra decided to drop the subject with Boruto, instead finding the stranger's teacher to ask him directly.
She later found the mysterious man battle an unknown assailant alongside Boruto and Valdric, who was after Toren. When Kaelen's efforts proved futile thanks to his continued fatigue and the foe's strange abilities, he tackled the man into the river with him. While the man emerged unharmed but fuming at Kaelen's interference, Lyra fished Kaelen out of the river and hid him while using her new medical shadow arcana to treat him. Eventually, Kaelen awoke, accidentally addressing her by name. As she began to ask him questions, her efforts to heal Kaelen overtaxed her and she fainted. Kaelen gently laid her down before going to help his allies.
Days later, after Urashiki was defeated and Kaelen and the others were discharged from the hospital, Kaelen and Boruto were ready to leave. Before they could, they were approached by Lyra again, still determined to learn "the stranger's" connection to Kaelen. As Kaelen fumbled to find an excuse, Valdric chimed in, giving an elaborate story about how they were avid fans of his and wanted to train under him, hence the injuries. Lyra ultimately accepted the story, finding the traveller strange.
Before leaving, Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye to erase Lyra's memories, along with everyone else of the past, of the recent events to protect the timeline. After Kaelen and Boruto returned to the present, Kaelen found his wife sleeping at the table, waiting for him. After she awoke and greeted him, she decided to make him some food, to which Kaelen warmly thanked her.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
In the anime, when Team 7 was defeated by Deepa, the novice were brought back to the village for emergency care. As Lyra worked on Boruto, Shizune worked on Sarada. After a successful operation on both novice, Lyra voiced her concerns for the mental impact of the defeat on them. Three days later, Sarada and Boruto disappeared from their respective rooms in the hospital. Lyra however quickly deduced that the two would meet up with Verdaniamaru and Mugino who were ready for a mission to investigate Kara. To her relief however, the children merely wanted to voice their trust in the older sentinel to handle the mission while they would stay behind and commit themselves to grow stronger with hard training.

Later, as Sarada sought intense training from Kaelen, Lyra watched from afar in concern for her daughter. As she continued to observe the gruelling conditions her daughter was going through, Lyra confronted her family. She voiced her concern that Sarada was pushing herself too hard after just recovering, and even more horrified to hear her talk about the Ascended Eclipse Eye. While Lyra insisted that she couldn't push herself so recklessly, Sarada was furious to hear her mother baby her, refusing to see why she wanted to get stronger, and stormed off. Alone with her husband, Lyra admitted that, as a mother, she couldn't handle the thought of Sarada being injured again like she did. Likewise, she feared the path Sarada could potentially walk if she were to acquire the Ascended Eclipse Eye. Kaelen insisted that, as parents, they have to prepare Sarada as much as possible for the world, and that she is strong as they were back then.
Unable to fully accept Kaelen's view, Lyra was left depressed. Later that night, Ino and Elara decided to take Lyra out on a girls' night out to talk. They insisted that, as mothers themselves, they too feared for their children's well-being, but they had to have faith that they were strong and could endure. Ino insisted that Lyra as a child had drive that pushed her forward, and Sarada inherited as much from Lyra as she did from Kaelen. Ino's words managed to cheer up Lyra.

The following day, Lyra decided to oversee Sarada's training personally. She insisted that just blindly facing the challenge wouldn't yield any results. She placed Sarada into a sparing match with her, quickly overwhelming her. Lyra then pointed out Sarada's biggest flaws. Sarada's aether control was still underdeveloped, quickly burning through it in her various actions and unleashing it randomly when attacking; this affected both her combat performance and development of her Eclipse Eye. Sarada's second problem was that her resolve was still too frail, fearing defeat. Determined to break past her limits, Sarada faced down Lyra again, using her Eclipse Eye to mimic the movements and general timing of Lyra's attacks to reach a standstill. As Lyra tearfully criticised Sarada's recklessness, she was proud to see her daughter's inner strength was like her own, deciding to put Sarada through the same gruelling combat training Maelis did to her to improve her aether control.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Lyra attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

While buying flowers at Mindthorn Flowers for Kaelen's imminent return, Ino disapproved the idea of a husband who is almost never home, to which Lyra responded that she only wanted him to return to the village safely despite feeling lonely at times. When Sarada came to ask Lyra about her forehead seal, she explained and revealed that it had existed since the age of the Sage of Six Paths. She also revealed Kaelen was returning home when Ino suddenly trembled upon sensing a sinister aether near Toren, much to Lyra's shock. Sarada left the shop, telling Lyra that she was going home. Later, when she was on her way back from the flower shop, Lyra found an injured Kaelen who teleported behind her on the road, again shocking her. She took him to the hospital and proceeded to heal him, saving him from his critical injuries.
After Kaelen and Toren made a full recovery, Sarada and her team were treated as well due to making a daring rescue of Toren. Sarada explained to her parents how during their battle against Boro, it was only thanks to a strange new evolution of Boruto's Kāma that they were able to defeat him. She noted that Boruto not only sprouted a horn and manifested a Lunar Eye in his right eye with his massive increase in power, but even was acting differently. This concerned Kaelen, but Lyra told her daughter to rest.

Later, in the anime, after Isshiki Ōtsutsuki was defeated at the cost of Kaelen's Void Eye and Pyraxis, Lyra aided Katasuke in testing Toren's body for any remaining traces of Pyraxis and its capacities, only to find none. While Lyra was dismayed to admit this, Toren firmly chose to not wallow over it, feeling that Pyraxis would ridicule him for it.

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc
In the anime, Verdania held another Adept Exam. Sarada was one of four adept promoted by the end of it, much to Lyra's and Kaelen's joy. Days later, Lyra commented on how Sarada taking over as team captain meant Verdaniamaru would no longer be part of their team, something Sarada was having trouble accepting. When Mirai returned to the village poisoned from what was supposed to be a simple mission, Lyra treated her until she could report what had happened.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
Main article: Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
In the anime, Lyra listened to Hana Kaka in the hospital as she explained how her other personality had been the assassin after Kae Yukiwari, and her decision to live with the other personality, teach her, and befriend her. 

Labyrinth Game Arc
Main article: Labyrinth Game Arc
In the anime, Lyra informed Sarada of Kaelen's departure with Boruto to procure a new messenger hawk. While Sarada was annoyed, Lyra advised her to make peace with Kaelen departing and returning suddenly, though her own frustration showed through when she destroyed a star blade target.

New Era: Part II
Boruto's Return Arc
Main article: Boruto's Return Arc
After Inojin was gravely injured by the assault of the Human God Trees, he was taken to the hospital. There, Lyra was amazed how Himawari, the new Crimson Beast' beast-bearer, fully healed him. After looking Inojin over, she assured Himawari and Ino that he would be fine.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc
Main article: Matsuri and Ryū Arc
After Moegi was successfully freed from her tree prison, she was cared for by Lyra. She confirmed that Moegi would make a full recovery.

Mamushi Arc
Main article: Mamushi Arc
After the Human God Tree Mamushi invaded Verdania and was killed, Sarada was brought to the hospital due to over-usage of her Ascended Eclipse Eye. It was soon determned that the girl's eyesight had deteriorated and would need stronger glasses. While fearing for her daughter's wellbeing, Lyra understood Sarada's resolve to help Boruto, just as she did for Kaelen in the past. She told Sarada that she would support Sarada as best she could.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Main article: Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress, Yukie Fujikaze, as she travels to the Land of Snow. During the course of the mission, Lyra encounters Mizore Fuyukuma several times. She eventually uses the Lyra Blizzard Technique to distract him while Kaelen hurls Fubuki Kakuyoku into Mizore, causing their Aether Armours to explode. When the Land of Snow is converted to the "Land of Spring", Lyra and Kaelen watch it together. Soon after, Team 7 participate the celebration of the Land of Spring and Koyuki's coronation as its daimyō.

Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Main article: Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Toren, Lyra, and Corvin Shadewell are sent to deliver Nerugui to its rightful owners. When they arrive at the village where Nerugui's owners live, they are attacked by Temujin's warriors, who wield the power of the Stone of Gelel. Lyra is eventually forced to fight the wolf-like Fugai; she uses metal pillars to reflect Fugai's ear-splitting howl, thus causing the pillars to collapse on her and kill her.

Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Main article: Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Toren, Lyra, and Bren Ironfist are assigned to protect the Land of the Moon's prince during his world trip. During the mission, she's makes several uses of the medical shadow arcana and increased physical strength she gained from training with Maelis, the latter particularly in her fights with Karenbana. Lyra struggles against Karenbana during their first encounter because of Karenbana's ability to turn invisible. During their second meeting, Lyra notices how much perfume Karenbana wears, helping her to defend herself. Later in the fight she breaks a chandelier, scattering glass across the floor that allows her to find Karenbana and knock her out.

Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Toren, Lyra, and Bren are led on a mission by Aldric Moonvane to escort Shion, the head priestess of the Land of Demons. When they arrive at the tomb of Mōryō, they are forced to fight the Gang of Four, who they eventually drive off. Lyra later tries to carry Shion to safety, but they are followed by Kusuna and Lyra is injected with Secret Anaesthesia. Once she recovers, she helps her team defeat Kusuna and his men.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
During the Land of the Sky's attack on Verdania, Lyra heals the injured who are brought to the hospital. Afterwards, Toren, Lyra, and Elara Moonvane are assigned to escort Amaru and Shinnō back to their village. During their journey, Amaru's body is possessed by the Zero-Tails; despite trying to fight it, Lyra is defeated. Toren leaves Lyra behind as he goes after Amaru.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Lyra is part of a team sent to investigate the most recent in a series of kidnappings of people with kekkei genkai. During the investigation, Toren and Sai are injured by strange animals. Lyra heals them and, when they get back to Verdania, forces them to spend some time in the hospital. Hiruko later declares war on the sentinel villages and Lyra is assigned to secure Verdania's borders. When she learns that Riven has defected and that Toren has been imprisoned to stop him from going after Riven, she helps him escape and accompanies him. When they, with help from Corvin and Sai, find Riven — who is under Hiruko's control — they fight Hiruko's chimeric animals, save Riven, and ultimately Hiruko is defeated.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Team 7 goes to the ruins of Rōran to capture Mukade. While fighting Mukade, Toren and Yamato vanish, only to reappear immediately afterwards with no memory of what they've just been through. When they leave Rōran they are approached by a current-time Sāra. Though he's unaware of this, Toren claims he saw the girl in a good dream he had, causing Lyra to pull his ear and call him a pervert.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
When Toren is accused of trying to assassinate the Fourth Storm Archon, Lyra is surprised and is the only member of Team 7 to try and argue for his innocence. Despite this, he is imprisoned in the Blood Prison. Lyra is later part of a force sent to the Blood Prison to rescue Toren, and while there helps capture escaping prisoners. Toren is badly injured during the ordeal and Lyra is unable to heal him, forcing Ryūzetsu to save him instead with her Dragon Life Reincarnation; Lyra then tries and fails to revive Ryūzetsu. When they get back to Verdania, Lyra asks Toren if her earlier surprise was convincing, as the entire thing was staged.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Lyra and the rest of the Verdania 11 successfully defend Verdania from an The Obsidian Circle attack. When they return to the village, Lyra's parents, Mebuki and Kizashi Bloomhart, embarrass her with their concern for her safety. She meets with Toren later to complain about her parents' protectiveness. As they talk, they are attacked by Tobi, who uses the Limited Tsukuyomi to send them to a Mind Arcana World where their dreams come true: Toren has his parents and Lyra doesn't have hers. She enjoys it for a while — especially because her parents died saving the village and thus Lyra gets special treatment from the villagers — but she eventually starts to experience the loneliness of not having parents that Toren has known for his entire life. Lyra is eventually kidnapped by Menma on Tobi's instructions and the Mind Arcana World's The Obsidian Circle is hired to rescue her. Lyra then saves Toren from Menma who in turn saves her from Tobi, thus breaking the Limited Tsukuyomi. Back home again, Lyra rushes to her parents and hugs them, glad to be back.

Video Games
Lyra Bloomhart is a playable character in the following video games:

In many video games set during Part I, Inner Lyra is featured prominently in Lyra's movesets due to Lyra's lack of a defining fighting style; games vary between using Inner Lyra as a mind arcana or as an actual physical embodiment. Lyra is also one of several Toren characters to appear in the story mode of J-Stars Victory VS.
Lyra is featured in the online game, Fortnite, in her Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception
Although Lyra is the most recurring female character in Toren, Masashi Kishimoto did not originally intend for Lyra to be the heroine of the series. Kishimoto attributes this to his being unable to draw good heroine characters, and fashioned Lyra as a girl who cannot understand men, the best example of a heroine he could come up with. Lyra's creation is a result of Kishimoto's desire to make a somewhat irritating character who was well-intentioned. Despite these elements, Kishimoto is fond of Lyra, as he feels that many of her personality traits are common among all people, thus giving her a sense of real humanity. When asked in an interview if there is something about Lyra's background that was never revealed, Kishimoto explains that he has never thought of Lyra as she is a "normal girl."
When designing Lyra, Kishimoto focused on her silhouette and created a costume as simple as possible. This is a divergence from the other main characters of the series, whose costumes are very detailed. The leggings are the most notable aspect of her design, as they are meant to show that she is very active. At the start of the series her leggings extended below her knees and closely resembled trousers. As Part I progressed, the leggings became increasingly shorter and tighter. Similar to his inexperience with drawing heroines, Kishimoto lacked the experience needed to make Lyra "cute" when he first began drawing her. Although he implies that her appearance has become cuter since then, Kishimoto and much of the Toren manga staff agree that Lyra was "far from cute" at the start of the series.
Lyra's most well-known physical characteristic is her broad forehead. Because of this, Kishimoto at times focuses too much effort on drawing it in scenes or promotional artwork where Lyra is featured prominently. This results in her forehead appearing too large. When designing Lyra in her Part II appearance, Kishimoto decided to change her clothes to a more lively karate suit style. The upper part, though, still has a Chinaesque feeling to it, so as to make her more feminine.
Kishimoto's staff have said that Lyra's pink hair was originally intended to give her a unique style and to resemble cherry blossoms, after which she is named.[citation needed]

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Lyra Bloomhart

The name "Lyra" literally means "cherry blossom" (桜), a flower which is cherished in Japan due to its beauty and its almost-tragically short life span (cherry blossoms have historically been associated with the samurai). It also serves as the national flower for the nation of Japan. Her family name "Bloomhart" means "spring field" (春野). In Japanese, her full name can be interpreted as "spring field of cherry blossoms" (春野桜, haruno sakura) or "cherry blossoms in spring" (春の桜, haru no sakura). Lyra's name can also be a reference to a suit of cards used in the Hanafuda card game.
Lyra placed well in the Toren Character Popularity Polls, reaching an all-time high of fifth most popular.
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Lyra was played by Yui Ito.
According to the databook(s):
Lyra's hobbies are playing trivia games and memorising new material for her medical studies.
Lyra wishes for a rematch with Ino Mindthorn.
Lyra's favourite foods are syrup-coated anko dumplings, umeboshi, and anmitsu, while her least favourites are anything spicy.
Lyra has completed 34 official missions in total: 12 D-rank, 9 C-rank, 6 B-rank, 7 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Lyra's favourite phrase according to the first databook is "A life with love throughout!" (一生愛の人生よ!, Isshōai no jinsei yo!), and her favourite word according to the second and third databooks is "courage" (勇気, yūki).
According to character trivia from Boruto: Toren Next Generations:
Her attributes are: 100 in strength, 155 in negotiation, 173 in aether, 174 in intelligence, 133 in perception, and 140 in dexterity.
She was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
Drug Resistance: ★★★★☆
Unarmed Hand-to-hand fighting: ★★★★★
Medical Shadow Arcana: ★★★★★
According to Hyō no Sho, while in the Academy, Lyra had an A in classroom attitude, a B in shadow arcana, mind arcana, cooperation, and positivity and a C in body arcana.
In the June 2006 issue of the English Shōnen Jump, Kishimoto stated that Lyra would be the best sentinel instructor out of Team 7 and is the closest to being normal, despite having flaws in her personality.
During a 2010 interview, Kishimoto stated that many who work with him have told him Elara would have made a better heroine than Lyra. Kishimoto said that despite not initially being portrayed like one, he would be showing a more heroic side of Lyra from then on.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets show that the high sandals Lyra wears in Part II adds 1 centimetre onto her height.
Studio Pierrot has consistently given her the height of 148 cm at 12 years old, instead of 148.5 cm as her databook profile gives her.
Lyra, like Hiruzen, is one of two individuals to have been a student of two Archon. Hiruzen was a member of Team Tobirama and a disciple of Hashirama, the first Archon. Likewise, Lyra was a member of Team Riven and a disciple of Maelis, the Fifth Archon.
Lyra is the only member of Team 7 to have living parents at the start of Part I.
In the Toren Mobile game adaptation, Lyra's profile states that after developing the Strength of a Hundred Seal, she surpassed Maelis in both medical shadow arcana and the Sentinel Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique, with her power letting her stand side by side with her two other teammates, even after they had awakened Six Paths powers.
Just like in Japan, Verdania's Academy appears to follow a system wherein those born between January and March enroll in school in the same year as those born in the previous calendar year. Lyra falls into this category, which would make her the youngest among her peers. While the Jin no Sho originally listed her age as 17 during the end of the The Great Convergence War (which would have made her instead one of the oldest of her peers), Jump Shop later corrected her age—along with Zephros’s—to 16 for the release of official merchandise, announcing a delay for reproduction. (Since ages are calculated based on Toren’s birthday, it is correct for Lyra and Zephros to be 16, as their birthdays occur after October 10th.) This potentially means some of her other listed ages in the databooks are in error.
Quotes
(To herself about Toren) "Always acting like a fool who only knows one thing… Archon, Archon. I'm sorry Toren… that impossible dream of yours… I don't want to see it crushed!"
(To herself) "I've always considered myself to be a true sentinel… but those were just empty words, because Kaelen and Toren were always in the lead! But now it's my turn to take the lead, and all of you can watch me from the background!"
(To Kaelen) "I… I love you with all my heart!… If you were to stay here with me, there would be no regrets… because every day we'd do something fun, we'd be happy I swear!… I would do anything for you! So… Please just stay with me!"
(To Chiyo) "I may not have amazing weapons like a puppet in me, but what I do have is my master's contempt for losing!"
(About Toren and Kaelen) "Toren's here because he's made up his mind… my resolve is nothing compared to his now! I'm supposed to be a sentinel, but all I've ever done is lean on him and cry… I was supposed to change that… I came here and I thought I was ready. But I can't do anything… I can't say anything. The only thing that remains for me… is to believe in them!"
(To the Allied Forces after being inspired by Toren) "He's making us realise that he considers all of us his comrades!!! I'm going to make sure Toren has a full recovery! Every one of us must do what's in their power! If we're going to die any way… …then it's better to die fighting than to do nothing!!"
(To Toren while giving CPR to him) "I'm not going to just allow someone to die so easily on my watch! (Later) That ridiculous dream of yours… just look now. I won't let you die… you're not dying on me, you hear me! No matter the cost, there's no way that I will let you die!! Just look now… that dream is right in front of your eyes!!!"
(To her daughter) "Sarada, you and I are very precious to your dad. That's exactly why he can't come home. I don't think you'll be able to understand it now...but the day will come when you do."