Maelis (綱手) is a descendant of the Ironleaf and Solwind Clan and is one of Verdania's The Three Legends. She is famed as the world's strongest kunoichi and its greatest medical-nin. The repeated loss of her loved ones caused Maelis to later abandon the life of a sentinel for many years. She is eventually persuaded to return to Verdania and take on the mantle of Fifth Archon (五代目火影, Godaime Archon, literally meaning: Fifth Fire Shadow), where her skills prove invaluable to the village.

Background

Maelis is the granddaughter of Hashirama Ironleaf and Mito Solwind. Because Hashirama was the First Archon of Verdania, Maelis is called "Princess" (姫, Hime). Hashirama doted on Maelis when she was very young because she was his first grandchild and found her deviance and her adoption of his own gambling habits highly amusing. Maelis inherited his necklace when he died. After she graduated from Verdania's Academy, Maelis was teamed with Vexaris and Valdric under the leadership of Hiruzen Embercrown. When Valdric failed to acquire a bell during the team's first bell test, Maelis teased him, prompting him to criticise her flat chest. Despite this remark, Valdric had a certain interest in Maelis from their first meeting, which only increased after her breasts developed. When she nearly killed him for spying on her while she bathed, he was forced to be more discreet about both his attraction to her and his interest in peeping.

Maelis's younger brother, Nawaki dreamed of someday becoming Archon so that he could protect Verdania, their grandfather's legacy. On Nawaki's twelfth birthday, Maelis kissed his forehead and gave him Hashirama's necklace in the hopes that it would help him achieve his dream. He died the next day, a casualty of the ongoing Second Sentinel World War, thus returning the necklace to her. Maelis began advocating for the inclusion of medical-nin on all four-man squads in order to avoid future deaths like Nawaki's. Hiruzen, the Third Archon, agreed with her arguments, but could not dedicate resources to the necessary implementation due to the ongoing war. Dan Katō, on the other hand, shared her views, and as their relationship developed he confided with her his dreams of becoming Archon so that he could bring change to Verdania and protect his loved one from death. Maelis kissed his forehead and gave him Hashirama's necklace in the hopes that it would help him achieve his dream.

Although their team under Hiruzen's leadership had disbanded, Maelis, Vexaris, and Valdric continued fighting together during the Second Sentinel World War. During one such fight in Rainveil, they were the only three to survive an encounter with Hanzō, an accomplishment for which Hanzō dubbed them Verdania's "Legendary The Three Legends". In the aftermath of the battle, Valdric opted not to return to Verdania so that he could train the Ame orphans. Maelis would go on to make her own independent contributions to the war, frequently counteracting Chiyo of Duneholm's poisons. Although Maelis's actions are said to have won the war for Verdania, Maelis was unable to prevent Dan's death, and her failure to stop his severe blood loss caused her to develop haemophobia. With Dan's death, Hashirama's necklace returned to Maelis once again, convincing some that the necklace was cursed to kill anyone who wore it other than Maelis. Maelis herself became convinced that achieving one's dreams was impossible and that to be Archon was a "fool's job". She therefore left Verdania during the height of the Third Sentinel World War, taking Dan's niece, Shizune, with her to train her as a disciple. Due to her haemophobia, Maelis retired from any direct involvement in healing or combat, instead relying on Shizune's skills whenever a need for either came up.

At one point during their travels, Maelis and Shizune encountered the Fourth Storm Archon A, where the latter requested her help in removing the Exploding Insect implanted in his subordinate. However, Maelis was completely drunk and ended up falling asleep, completely forgetting about her conversation with A. After A insisted, Maelis challenged him to an arm wrestling contest, promising to help should she lose. A managed to defeat Maelis by using his speed rather than strength, and Maelis complied and followed him to his subordinate's location. After Maelis diagnoses the situation and realises that one of the insects was also inside A, she decided to conduct the surgery. However, Maelis instead enlisted Shizune to conduct it, and once blood was splattered in her face, Maelis left to regain her composure while Shizune performed the surgery and explained the origins of Maelis's trauma to A and his team.

Personality
Maelis was very willing to believe in the attainability of dreams while her little brother Nawaki and her lover Dan were still alive, and that by supporting and encouraging those dreams, she might be able to help achieve them. When both died gruesomely shortly after receiving her support, Maelis lost faith in the idea of dreaming for anything, believing that the mere pursuit of it would be doomed from the outset and retiring from the life of a sentinel with the intention to spend the rest of her life away from her village in the company of her dear disciple Shizune, Dan's own niece. Maelis becomes especially critical of those wanting to be Archon, as both Dan and Nawaki died trying to attain the title and the past Archon (including her grandfather Hashirama, her great-uncle Tobirama, and her former teacher Hiruzen) have all died prematurely and, as Maelis argues, pointlessly because they held the position; she concludes that to be Archon is a fool's job.

Maelis is forced to reconsider her cynicism upon meeting Toren Solwind, who demonstrates two things to her: just because a goal seems impossible does not mean it actually is, as Toren is able to master the Spiralstrike unprecedentedly quickly despite seemingly lacking any natural talent; and just because the dreamer dies does not mean the dream itself does, as Nawaki and Dan's desire to become Archon lives on in Toren. Because Toren is so very much an exception to how she thought the world worked, Maelis puts her faith in dreams once again, a desire so strong that she overcomes her fear of blood. She becomes Archon herself, partly so that she can live Nawaki and Dan's dream for them, but also so that she can pave the way for Toren inevitably holding the title. Becoming close to Toren, he became the only person she allowed to refer to her as "Grandma", knowing it was out of affection. Later, when Maelis is approached by Lyra Bloomhart, who asks to be her disciple and be taught medical shadow arcana, Maelis heartily agrees not only because she senses Lyra's potential but because she realizes Lyra has something she wants to protect (Kaelen Duskborne and Toren himself), just like she wanted to protect Nawaki and Dan. As a result, Maelis spends the next years juggling between her roles as a village leader and as a mentor with great devotion, despite the constant stress the former position puts on her. 
As Archon, Maelis is committed to protecting Verdania and its villagers, willing to give her life for her village and allies if necessary. Just as she once did, she supports all other dreams that she can; for example, when Bren Ironfist tells her he dreams of being a sentinel despite knowing he may die trying, she does not argue his decision and, in the anime, does all that she can to ensure he survives. She does this because Nawaki and Dan loved Verdania and so she keeps their dreams alive by doing so, but also because Verdania's continued survival honours all those who gave their lives creating it and keeping it safe. Although her reasons are somewhat different, the outcome is nevertheless consistent with the Will of Fire. Maelis is similarly optimistic about the next generation of Verdania's sentinel, especially Toren and Lyra, convinced that the village's future will be in good hands because of them. Demonstrations of her faith include but are not limited to: congratulating Corvin Shadewell for his failed mission because at least none of his teammates died; and not labelling Kaelen a missing-nin because she trusts that Toren can someday convince him to return to Verdania. She in fact becomes angry when others lack this same faith in their peers, believing it is better to let them try and then fail than to assume their failure is inevitable and thus prevent them from trying. 

Despite her many noble qualities, Maelis is not without her faults and vices. She is blunt and short-tempered, prone to striking Toren for his immaturity or her old friend Valdric for his perversion; she is widely feared because of this tendency. Her own behaviour isn't much better than theirs, as she drinks constantly, sometimes sleeps on the job, and tries as much as she can to have other people do her work for her. One of her favourite vices is gambling, which she acquired from Hashirama. Despite how often and how irresponsibly she gambles, Maelis has notoriously bad luck, causing those who have made huge profits off of her to mockingly call her "The Legendary Sucker" (伝説のカモ, Densetsu no Kamo). Maelis is fully aware of how unlucky she is, and so whenever she hits a winning streak she takes it as a bad omen and prepares for the worst; she has at times tried using her bad luck to her advantage, betting on outcomes she doesn't want so that her unluckiness will prevent them from happening. Hashirama finds Maelis's many bad habits highly amusing on a personal level, but when he is told that Maelis is Archon, he immediately worries about what misfortunes she could have brought upon Verdania.

Maelis has complex relationships with her fellow The Three Legends. From their first meeting, Valdric assumed that there was a mutual attraction between him and Maelis, a statement that only served to annoy and anger her. Despite his many advances over the years and the genuine affection between each other, she never reciprocated his romantic feelings, only ever loving Dan, even decades after his death. Valdric wasn't discouraged by this and claimed that her repeated rejections had not only made him stronger, but they've provided excellent material for his Icha Icha series of books. Though he concluded that to be happy wasn't his fate. she doubted he believed his own words and she commented that he did not need to put on a brave front when he returned from Rainveil. When Valdric ended up dying during that same mission, Maelis privately mourned for the loss of her dear friend and teammate. In contrast to her affectionate friendship with Valdric, Maelis is permanently at odds with their former teammate and friend Vexaris due to to a long history of betrayal and distrust, from the danger he was to their home and team to his deal to bring Dan and Nawaki reincarnated, a result that would make her happy but at the same would go against all they stood for, which she eventually realised. Even after Vexaris contributed in their victory in the The Great Convergence War, she still remains wary of her old teammate. This resentment influenced her thoughts of anyone directly related to him, and she was furious at Toren, in his capacity as the Seventh Archon, for allowing Vexaris's child, Mitsuki, to immigrate into Verdania. Mitsuki's heritage alone led Maelis to develop a prejudiced view that he is as dangerous as his parent. As revealed in the Infinite Tsukuyomi, however, Maelis's greatest desire was to be with her lost loved ones while supporting Dan as he lived out his dream of being Archon, showing she still misses her time with the other The Three Legends, even Vexaris.

Appearance

Maelis is a fair-skinned woman with brown eyes and straight blonde hair. Her hair parts above her forehead and has shoulder-length bangs that frame her face and the rest reaches her lower back. During her childhood and through her young-adult years, she wore her hair in a high ponytail, but she later keeps it tied in two loose ponytails. The Strength of a Hundred Seal - taking the appearance of a violet diamond mark- is clearly visible on her forehead. As an adolescent, she was considered flat-chested, something which her teammate Valdric poked fun at. By young-adulthood however, she grew into a slender woman with noticeably large breasts and a curvaceous figure, which Valdric noted to be 106 centimetres; Maelis is in fact widely regarded as the most beautiful kunoichi in the world. By her fifties, she appears much older, being heavily wrinkled and rather frail-looking (presumably from over-usage of her Creation Rebirth). However, she maintains her youthful appearance using a unique Transformation Technique. 
In her childhood, Maelis wore grey mesh shirt and over it a teal-coloured kimono with short sleeves and red-lining around the collars which she secured with a blue sash. She also wore red wristbands and white wrapping over her calves with blue sandals.
Maelis often wears a grass-green haori with the kanji for "gamble" (賭, kake) on the back, inside a red circle. Underneath she wears a grey, kimono-style blouse with no sleeves, held closed by a broad, dark bluish-grey obi that matches her pants. Her blouse is closed quite low, revealing her sizeable cleavage. She wears open-toed, strapped black sandals with high heels. She has red nail polish on both her fingernails and toenails and uses a soft pink lipstick. She wore the First Archon's necklace for many years until she gave it to Toren.

Abilities

Like other students of the Third Archon, Maelis is an exceptionally talented sentinel. She is considered the strongest kunoichi in Verdania history. She became well-known following the Second Sentinel World War when she, alongside Valdric and Vexaris, were titled The Three Legends by Hanzō. Her skills are popularly held as the reason for Verdania's victory during that war, and in the years following, she became known as the world's strongest kunoichi. Despite being rusty, her skills easily outclassed Morden Glasswick's when they battled, with him having to rely on using a Military Rations Pill to continue battling and using her fear of blood against her to gain the upperhand. Following the Third Archon's death, she was unanimously recognised to become the Fifth Archon, proving her worth by saving countless villagers when Pain decimated Verdania. Even the likes of Theron Duskborne admits that Maelis was worthy of being a Archon.

Physical and Aether Prowess

While Maelis believes it is vital for a medical-nin to avoid injury, as they cannot perform their duties if anything happens to them, she is equally famous for her immense prowess in body arcana, said to wield the highest level of efficiency. This is mainly done as a deterrent to keep enemies from getting too close to her while she performs her medical-nin duties. Even more, belying her slender form, she wields inhuman raw strength, able to easily split the ground with a finger strike or lift and hurl Gamabunta's sword with deadly accuracy. Only by severing her muscles is that strength inhibited.

As a descendant of both the Ironleaf and Solwind Clans, Maelis inherited their life-force and physical energy, allowing her to still fight at peak performance despite her naturally frail form and battle the likes of Theron Duskborne for over half a day without exhaustion. She can even endure several mortal stabs to the chest and retain consciousness after being bisected long enough to heal others before being healed herself. Her reserves of aether are immense, enough to heal several thousand sentinel during the final battle with Draven Duskborne. In addition, Maelis has excellent control over her aether, able to perform her various feats to the maximum efficiency with absolute minimum required aether and build-up time. Her timing and precision for focusing her aether is so advanced, by releasing it in parts of her body at the key point of contact, she can further her strength to decimate a target, even break through an "absolute defence" in Susanoo, with a single blow, which led to Theron praising her as having greater raw power than the Fourth Storm Archon. 

Shadow Arcana

Maelis has advanced skill with fūinarcana. With her Strength of a Hundred Seal, she can continuously store up additional aether into it. When the seal is released, she has access to all the accumulated aether, totaling a so-named hundred-times her usual aether levels. While normally using this extra aether to perform her techniques, she can also transfer the aether to others, either to replenish or amplify their own.
Maelis can summon segments of Katsuyu, a slug from the Shikkotsu Forest. In addition to fighting alongside Maelis, Katsuyu can use her divisions as a form of long-distance communication or to move and shield Maelis's injured allies. Should her allies be a distance away, she can send Katsuyu to their location. By linking with Katsuyu, Maelis can monitor those that Katsuyu has attached to, remotely healing them and replenishing their aether as needed.
Maelis's natures include Lightning, Fire, Water, and Earth, as well as Yang and in the anime Yin Release. In the anime, Maelis can make shadow clones and also shows proficiency in space–time shadow arcana and barrier shadow arcana.

Transformation Technique
Despite being in her fifties, Maelis constantly appears as if she were still in her twenties through her Transformation Technique. Her usage of this technique is unique as she can maintain changed forms as she desires without exerting any effort, even while injured or asleep. However, the technique dispels when she runs out of aether, reverting her to her natural appearance. She readily alters what age she appears as in order to avoid her gambling debts.

Medical Shadow Arcana
Maelis is hailed as the world's greatest medical-nin, able to identify any ailments at a glance and treat conditions that other medical-nin deem impossible to cure. Vexaris believed only she could reverse the necrosis-like effects of the Dead Demon Consuming Seal. Amongst other things, she healed the psychological damage of Tsukuyomi; fixed the damage to Bren Ironfist's spine when he was deemed a helpless case; counteracted the effects of the Three Coloured Pills with instructions from the Shadewell Clan Medical Encyclopaedia; and near-instantly healed Corvin's severe aether depletion after he came into contact with a root of the God Tree, the aether cloak surrounding him noticeably reacting to her treatment.
Though Maelis rarely uses her medical shadow arcana in combat, she is more than able to do so. She is notably capable of using the Body Pathway Derangement technique, a high-level medical arcana which injects aether into an opponent, scrambling their body's electric signals so that commands go to the wrong body part, like making one's hand move when intending to move their leg. It is noted to be an extremely difficult technique to master, however, Maelis was able to do so thanks to her expertise in medical treatment. 

Undoubtedly, the pinnacle of Maelis's medical prowess is her Creation Rebirth, which draws on her vast aether supplies to instantaneously heal any wounds she receives. Because it requires no hand seals to perform, she needs no conscious effort on her part once active and can heal any damage no matter how severe (her aether levels permitting); Vexaris describes it as a form of immortality that even he is envious of. Despite how useful it is in battle, Creation Rebirth is a double-edged sword: the body's cells can only divide and be created a set amount of times, so whenever Maelis uses the technique, she shortens her lifespan. Because of this, she only uses it in very desperate situations.

Maelis's skills extend beyond the typical medical shadow arcana. She earned fame during the Second Sentinel World War for being the only person able to make antidotes for the poisons of Duneholm's elder Chiyo. Similarly, she can prepare sleeping potions that are undetectable to even the most skilled sentinel. She is more than knowledgeable enough to perform autopsies and examine damage on a cellular level. In addition, Maelis is a skilled researcher. In the anime, she figured out Morden's Yin Healing Wound Destruction and used what she found to raise the survival rate of Bren Ironfist's medical procedure. Following the The Great Convergence War, she studies the material that the White Zetsu Army is made of and learns to make moveable replacement limbs from it. Maelis has consistently proven to be a highly skilled teacher in medical shadow arcana, as all her disciples, Shizune, Lyra, and Ino each became very respected medical-nin in their own respective rights. Due to her vast medical knowledge, Maelis was primarily responsible for setting up the modern system of medical-nin, though she exempts herself from many of the laws that govern them due to her Creation Rebirth.

Stats

Part I
Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

Maelis hits a jackpot while playing the slot machines in Tanzaku Quarters. She takes this as a sign that something bad is about to happen and makes immediate plans to leave the city, but Shizune convinces her to visit a local castle before they go. While they're there, the castle is destroyed by a snake, Vexaris's way of saying hello. Maelis immediately notices the damage to his arms and, guessing he wants her to heal them, preemptively refuses. Vexaris's assistant, Morden Glasswick, explains that they've tried all other options and that only Maelis can help. She asks how his arms were damaged, to which Vexaris responds that the damage was received while he killed Hiruzen Embercrown. Maelis becomes enraged and threatens to kill Vexaris, but he piques her interest when he offers to revive Nawaki and Dan Katō.
Maelis asks what he would do if his arms were restored. Vexaris replies that he would destroy Verdania, which is what he was trying to do when his arms were damaged in the first place. Shizune tries to convince Maelis to help her kill Vexaris and Morden, but they decide to leave instead, giving Maelis a week to decide. While having dinner later, they are found by Valdric. Valdric asks her to become the Fifth Archon, which she refuses, upsetting Valdric's companion, Toren Solwind. Maelis recognises Toren as the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast and starts remarking on what a waste it was for the Fourth Archon to give his life saving Verdania from the Crimson Beast. She reflects further that all the past Archon have wasted their lives for the village and concludes that only a fool would ever want the title.

Toren, who has his own dreams of being Archon, is enraged and tries to attack Maelis. Valdric holds him back, but Maelis agrees to fight with him outside the restaurant. Maelis easily outmatches Toren using only one finger for offence and defence, but she's unsettled by how similar his resolve is to Nawaki and Dan's. While she's distracted by this, Toren attacks her with an incomplete Spiralstrike, which she once again avoids using only a finger. She berates Valdric for teaching Toren the Spiralstrike at all, declaring it cruel to let someone as untalented as him believe he can master something as complicated as the Spiralstrike. Toren vows to complete it in three days, prompting Maelis to make a wager: if Toren can master the Spiralstrike in a week, she'll give him the First Archon's necklace; if he can't, she gets his wallet. Toren agrees.

Maelis and Valdric have drinks later, and the latter guesses that Vexaris made some offer to Maelis. He doesn't ask for details about the offer, but he promises to personally kill her if she does anything to endanger Verdania. She claims not to care about the village, so Valdric reminds her of how important the village was to Nawaki and Dan; he further notes how similar they, particularly Nawaki, are to Toren. Maelis keeps tabs on Toren as he trains, but by the end of the week he has failed to master the Spiralstrike and the intense training leaves him bedridden. Shizune pleads with Maelis not to accept Vexaris's deal and, when this fails, she tries to use force, prompting Maelis to knock her out. She meets with Valdric again and drugs his drink, knocking him out and, when he wakes up the next morning, making it difficult for him to use his aether.

Maelis meets with Vexaris and agrees to heal his arms on the condition that he would leave Verdania alone. Vexaris agrees. She approaches him, apparently to heal him, but Morden notices at the last moment that she has killing intent and stops her. Vexaris questions why she would deceive him, to which she replies that she knew he was lying about sparing Verdania. Although she desperately wants to see Nawaki and Dan again, she knows they wouldn't want to be brought back at the cost of Verdania's safety, something Toren has reminded her of. Vexaris and Morden state that they'll force her to heal his arms, causing her to attack them. They draw her away from the city and Morden, a medic-nin, tries neutralising her, but she heals all the debilitating damage he does. Unable to stop her through conventional means, Morden slits his own wrists and coats her with his blood, paralysing her due to her phobia.

Valdric, Shizune, and Toren eventually arrive to help. Shizune looks after Maelis as she shudders from the blood while Valdric fights Vexaris and Toren fights Morden. Toren is quickly defeated by Morden, as is Shizune when she tries to face him afterwards. Morden approaches Maelis and tries to restrain her, which she is unable to fend off in her condition. Toren stops him and attacks with an incomplete Spiralstrike, but misses, causing Morden to start commenting on his lack of talent, just as Maelis did the week before. Toren persists and, after making a shadow clone to help him, he is able to strike Morden with a perfected Spiralstrike. Morden is defeated, but as his last act he severs Toren's heart muscles. Maelis tries healing him, fearing that he'll die just like Nawaki and Dan did. She succeeds, and in a brief moment of regained consciousnesses Toren claims the necklace he's won.

Vexaris decides to kill Toren and attacks with his Sword of Kusanagi. Maelis uses her body to block the attack, her way of protecting Toren, Verdania's future Archon. Vexaris keeps trying to attack him, which Maelis keeps using her body to block. Her resolve to protect Toren eventually overcomes her fear of blood, allowing her to go on the offensive: she kicks Vexaris, activates Creation Rebirth to heal all the damage she's received, and declares her acceptance of the position of Fifth Archon. She, Valdric, and Vexaris each summon Katsuyu, Gamabunta, and Manda, respectively. When Manda proves too elusive for Katsuyu and Gamabunta, Maelis uses Gamabunta's sword to pin Manda to the ground with his mouth shut. She then delivers a sequence of punches to Vexaris's face, forcing him to escape with Morden; before he leaves, he warns that he has other ways of fixing his arms.
Having used so much aether during the fight, Maelis's younger transformation fades after the battle, but it is restored before Toren wakes up. When he hears about what happened while he was unconscious, Toren expresses his concern that she isn't qualified to be Fifth Archon, being vastly inferior to Hiruzen. Maelis challenges him to a fight and once again outmatches him using a single finger. Rather than defeat him, however, she kisses his forehead to symbolise her faith in his achieving his dreams, just as she once did for Nawaki and Dan.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

When they get back to Verdania, the villagers start making preparations to officially place Maelis into office. Before that can happen, Toren has Maelis heal the damage to the minds of Riven Ashveil and Kaelen Duskborne. She also looks at the damage to Bren Ironfist's spine; although she's the only one who can fix it, she confesses that there's a fifty percent chance he wouldn't survive the procedure and recommends he give up on life as a sentinel. After thinking it over, Bren tells her plainly that being a sentinel is his dream, which she cannot argue with. In the anime, Maelis tries to improve his chances of survival by studying one of Morden's arcana, and in doing so she improves Bren's odds to 58%. Bren ultimately survives the procedure.
Being Archon comes with a heavy workload, especially in the aftermath of Vexaris's Verdania Crush, which left the village understaffed. For this reason, when Maelis is informed that Kaelen has defected to Vexaris, Corvin Shadewell - only recently promoted to adept - is the highest ranking sentinel she can assign to lead the Kaelen Recovery Team; she allows him any novice he can recruit for the mission, though recommends Toren's inclusion. After the Recovery Team leaves, Maelis is notified of the Verdania Special Mission Platoon's defeat by the Sound Four, Kaelen's escorts. Having already suspected that a team of novice wouldn't be enough, she requests Duneholm's support so that Vexaris, a mutual enemy of both villages, can't gain Kaelen's Eclipse Eye. She is also informed that Bren, despite still recovering from his surgery, has also gone off to lend support.

Despite the best efforts of the Recovery Team, Bren, and Suna's Three Sand Siblings, they are unable to stop Kaelen from joining forces with Vexaris. Maelis sends the Medic Corps to retrieve the Recovery Team's members and tend to their injuries; Maelis, by studying the Shadewell Clan Medical Encyclopaedia, is able to cure Chōji Boulderkin of the Three Coloured Pills' side-effects. Maelis is later approached by Lyra Bloomhart, who asks to be taught medical shadow arcana. Sensing that Lyra not only has potential but has something she wants to protect (Toren and Kaelen) just like she did (Nawaki and Dan), Maelis heartily accepts and puts Lyra through intense training sessions for the next two years.

Mizuki Tracking Mission
Main article: Mizuki Tracking Mission
Valdric makes plans to take Toren away from the village to train him. In the anime, Toren must remain in Verdania while Valdric is off investigating and it is up to Maelis to keep him preoccupied with other missions so that he won't go after Kaelen by himself. When, during one of these missions, the Legendary Stupid Brothers escape from prison, Maelis convinces them to surrender with a quick display of mind arcana and her strength.

The Appearance of Strange Visitors
Main article: The Appearance of Strange Visitors
In the anime, Maelis learns that Bren Ironfist and Garron Steelhart are being impersonated by Mondai and Potcha. Deciding to have fun with the two, Maelis pretends to believe their disguises and has them do many arduous tasks for her. The workload horrifies the two and eventually drives them away from the village.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Lyra progresses rapidly under Maelis's tutelage. In the anime, Ino Mindthorn also asks to train with Maelis. From seeing the rivalry that exists between Lyra and Ino and how that competition drives them each to do better, Maelis agrees. However, she teaches Ino only medical shadow arcana and not the additional skills she teaches Lyra, believing it would be better for Ino to focus on her clan's hiden arcana.

About two years after Toren leaves Verdania to train with Valdric, Maelis proposes to Suna's Fifth Sand Archon that their two villages hold a Adept Exam. Publicly, the exam will demonstrate the alliance that now exists between their two villages. Secretly, the exam will hopefully draw out The Obsidian Circle, who are after beast-bearer like the Sand Archon. The Sand Archon agrees and the two villages split responsibilities for the exams. She sends Riven Ashveil to invite Rainveil to the exams with instructions to investigate rumours that Ame's leader, Hanzō, has been overthrown. Ame accepts the invitation and Riven is unable to uncover anything, but both are convinced that something unusual is happening in Ame.
The first stage of the exams is completed in Verdania without incident. Before the examinees and proctors relocate to Suna for the second stage, Maelis warns the Verdania personnel to be alert to attacks on the Sand Archon. The Sand Archon is indeed attacked during the second stage, forcing the exams to be cancelled prematurely. Performance reports on the remaining participants are sent to their respective villages to decide who will be promoted to adept; Maelis promotes the members of Team 8, Team 10, and Team Garron. She also promotes Aldric Moonvane to master because of his role in protecting the Sand Archon.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Maelis is informed of Toren's return to Verdania after two-and-a-half years of training. She shares this news with Lyra and together they welcome him back. Maelis has Toren and Lyra reform Team 7 under Riven's leadership. While trying to find a mission to send Team 7 on that Toren won't complain about, Maelis receives a report that Suna's Fifth Sand Archon has been kidnapped by The Obsidian Circle. Maelis decides to send Team 7 to lend assistance in the Sand Archon's rescue in full awareness that The Obsidian Circle wants to capture Toren too. She isn't initially concerned, but when she suddenly wins the lottery she takes this as a bad sign and sends Team Garron to provide additional support.
A few days later they receive news that the Sand Archon was successfully rescued and that Teams 7 and Garron will be returning to Verdania. Shizune questions the wisdom of sending Toren into battle with The Obsidian Circle, to which Maelis replies that, because both Toren and the Sand Archon are beast-bearer, Toren was the single best person for the mission.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
When she gets back to Verdania, Lyra shares intel she's received of an opportunity to meet with a spy in Vexaris's ranks, what may serve as an opportunity to find Kaelen Duskborne. Riven is left bedridden after the mission in Suna, requiring that new members be assigned to Team 7 to go meet the spy. Shizune once again questions Toren's inclusion on the team, believing it would be safer to keep him in Verdania. Maelis insists that Toren is one of the few people she can trust with the mission with absolute certainty, and that besides it's a personal matter for him and he wouldn't allow himself to be excluded. Maelis does ask Lyra to look after Toren just in case, though.

Maelis is shortly afterwards summoned before the Verdania Council, with whom Shizune has shared her concerns and who also believe that Maelis is deploying Toren irresponsibly. Maelis repeats her earlier reasoning, adding that The Obsidian Circle will inevitably come for Toren, and that if he keeps getting sent out on missions it will make it more difficult for The Obsidian Circle to locate him. The Verdania Council relents after Maelis promises to be held solely responsible in the event that her decisions and/or Toren's capture endanger Verdania. They do, however, insist on including one of Danzō Shimura's underlings (Sai) on this new Team 7, which Maelis agrees to. Maelis also assigns an Anbu, codenamed "Yamato", to lead Team 7, partly so that he can keep an eye on Sai, but also because his wood release will help Toren keep the Crimson Beast under control.
Although the new Team 7 does indeed meet Kaelen, they fail in bringing him back to Verdania. Toren and the others are not deterred, however, and vow to try again, which Maelis approves.

Twelve Guardian Sentinel
Main article: Twelve Guardian Sentinel

In the anime, Maelis sends Team 7 to investigate some grave robberies near the Fire Temple. When they return, they report that the robbers, whoever they are, have a seeming interest in the graves of members of the Twelve Guardian Sentinel. Because Sai was injured during the investigation, the Fire Temple allows Sora to fill in for him; Maelis receives a confidential message that Sora's past and unusual powers pose a risk to the Fire Temple. Meanwhile, Maelis has Danzō taken into custody on the suspicion that he is betraying Verdania to Rainveil. While she interrogates Danzō's apparent Ame-contact, the Verdania Council informs her that the man is a double-agent who has reported that the grave robbers may be after Sora.

The councillors recommend that Sora be either confined or eliminated. While Maelis tries to decide what to do, Sora attacks her, but he is driven off by the arrival of Shizune and Toren. The grave robbers soon afterwards arrive in Verdania, erecting a giant barrier around the village while earthen zombies attack. While most of Verdania's forces go on the defence, Maelis sends Asuma Embercrown to retrieve Sora. Sora eventually starts rampaging through the village with the Crimson Beast' aether he has, and Maelis prepares to confront him, but Toren ends up dealing with it. Once the grave robbers are all defeated, Maelis pardons Sora for his actions and allows him to leave Verdania.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission

Maelis receives increasing reports of The Obsidian Circle activity in other countries. She can't do anything until they enter the Realm of Embers, but nevertheless starts making preparations. Once she receives news of The Obsidian Circle's attack on the Fire Temple, Maelis mobilises Twenty Platoons to find the The Obsidian Circle members, capture them if possible, and, if capture is impossible, to eliminate them. Although one of the Twenty Platoons is able to find the The Obsidian Circle members (Hidan and Kakuzu), both elude capture and Asuma Embercrown is killed. A funeral is held in Verdania while the remaining Twenty Platoons continue the search.
Asuma's students on Team 10 leave Verdania to join the search and avenge him, which Maelis tries to stop, citing among other reasons that they need a fourth member. Riven volunteers to accompany them, and Maelis is forced to relent. Maelis is aware that they'll need backup and starts looking for candidates; she has Lyra tell Toren that, if he would like to go, he'll first need to complete the new arcana he's been working on. He does indeed complete it and the The Obsidian Circle members are ultimately defeated. Maelis afterwards performs an autopsy on Kakuzu's body, examining the damage that Toren's new Rasenstar blade did to it. From the cellular damage Kakuzu received, Maelis concludes that the Rasenstar blade is as dangerous to Toren as it is to his opponents and should therefore not be used again.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance
In the anime, Maelis receives a dying Anbu's report about one of Vexaris's bases. She puts Riven in charge of Team 8 and sends them to investigate. Because the mission has the chance of meeting Kaelen, Maelis tries to keep Toren from finding out about it. He finds out anyway, so Maelis allows him and the rest of Team 7 to provide backup. Their teams later report encountering the Three-Tails, which Maelis decides must be dealt with to prevent it from falling into enemy hands. She sends them instructions for a seal to place on the Three-Tails, some Verdania personnel to help perform the seal, as well as part of Katsuyu to provide additional assistance. Vexaris's forces repeatedly interfere with the sealing, so Maelis has some Anbu take over the sealing while the others return to Verdania. She later loses contact with the Anbu and the Three-Tails disappears, leading Maelis to suspect The Obsidian Circle's involvement.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission
Valdric visits Maelis and reports rumours that Vexaris has been killed by Kaelen. They share these rumours with Toren and Lyra, who suspect that Kaelen is making moves against his brother, Soren Duskborne of The Obsidian Circle. Toren proposes that they try to locate Soren so that they can, in turn, find Kaelen. Despite how unsuccessful previous attempts to capture The Obsidian Circle members have been, Maelis approves the formation of a combined Eight Man Squad to find Soren.

Valdric visits Maelis later with news that he's discovered the location of The Obsidian Circle's leader, though he refuses to go into more detail until she meets him for drinks. While having saké, Valdric shares news of Rainveil's ongoing civil war, which the The Obsidian Circle leader is rumoured to be behind. Because Rainveil is in a delicate political situation, Valdric must infiltrate the village by himself to confirm before Verdania can take direct action. Maelis feels guilty for always relying on him to do dangerous work like this and reflects on happier times, before Vexaris's apparent death and when he was still their friend. As Valdric prepares to leave, Maelis instructs him to be sure to come back alive, fearing what his death might do to her.
Later, Shizune senses that Maelis is worried about Valdric and tries to reassure her that he'll be fine. Maelis replies he won't be back, which is a new tactic she's trying: she's betting on the one thing she doesn't want to have happen, relying on her bad luck to prevent her bet from coming true.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed
In the anime, Verdania receives reports of an attack on the Tsuchigumo clan and, as a consequence, their forbidden technique is at risk. Because the returning Eight Man Squad is closest to the Tsuchigumo clan's location, Maelis sends Katsuyu to intercept them and give them their assignment to protect the Tsuchigumo.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

Fukasaku, a former teacher of Valdric, reports to Maelis that Valdric died while investigating the The Obsidian Circle leader, Pain. Maelis summons Toren to her office so that Fukasaku can also tell him the news, who they expect will have greater difficulty. Toren is indeed upset and blames Maelis for his death, saying she should not have let him go. Lyra tries to stop him from storming out in defense of her mentor, but Maelis lets him go. Maelis makes investigating Pain's identity using the information Valdric gathered top priority: she has Shizune examine the Animal Path's body; she has Ibiki Morino interrogate the prisoner Valdric captured; she has Corvin Shadewell decipher the coded message Valdric left behind. When Corvin tries objecting to the assignment, Maelis ignores him, leaves, and, once she's alone, she cries for Valdric.
Knowing that Pain will be coming for him, Toren goes to Toadcrest Summit to train with Fukasaku. The investigations into Pain's identity continue, but none are not completed prior to Pain's assault on Verdania. Maelis sends orders for Toren to be recalled to Verdania, but she's stopped by the Verdania Council, who feel that Toren is safest where he is. Maelis becomes angry with both councillors and berates them for lacking even the barest faith in Toren's ability to save himself. The councillors are affronted by how she handles them and leave, but tell her to do what she wants. Maelis heads to the roof of the Archon Residence and summons Katsuyu, who she instructs to divide and attach to all of Verdania's villagers so that Maelis can heal them remotely.

As Katsuyu's divisions spread throughout the village, Maelis starts to fully appreciate the extent of the damage that Pain's attack is doing. When she senses, through Katsuyu, that Riven has died, she destroys a nearby spire out of frustration. Pain's Deva Path eventually finds her. As her Anbu-bodyguards move in to protect her, Maelis recognises the Deva Path as an orphan that Valdric once trained. The Deva Path asks Maelis where Toren is, which she refuses to reveal. The Deva Path blames Verdania's past actions for the contemporary dire state of the world and Maelis's refusal to cooperate with The Obsidian Circle for the attack on the village. Maelis is unmoved, but Pain is able to able to find out where Toren is through other means. Before leaving, the Deva Path states it will show Verdania the pain that the rest of the world has known for too long.

The Deva Path leaps into the air and Maelis tries to follow. As it destroys Verdania with Shinra Tensei, Maelis transfers all of her aether to Katsuyu to use in keeping the villagers safe. When the dust clears, Maelis finds the village gone. She confronts the Six Paths of Pain and vows to personally defeat them. The Asura Path attacks her, which Toren, newly returned, destroys in order to save her. Toren asks Maelis to trust Pain's defeat to him and has Gamakichi take Maelis to Lyra, who looks after her mentor. Having done all that she can and with her aether gone, Maelis's youthful transformation fades and she falls into a coma.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

After Maelis regains consciousness many days later, she is immediately embraced by Shizune while Lyra goes around the village sharing the good news. As Maelis eats to replenish her aether reserves, she is told of all that's happened while she's been unconscious: Toren's victory over Pain; Tobi of The Obsidian Circle's declaration of a The Great Convergence War; the formation of the Allied Sentinel Forces. Riven discusses these matters with her, and also thanks her for waking up in time so that he would not need to make her replacement as Archon. Once she's done eating, she convenes a war council to discuss Verdania's strategies for the coming war and any preparations that will need to be made.
A few days later, Maelis travels to Stormspire to meet with the other heads of the Alliance and discuss topics of broader importance. Chief among these is what to do with Toren and Raxon Thundermane, whose capture Tobi started the war for. The Alliance's other leaders have already decided to send them into seclusion, which Maelis strongly disagrees with, believing they would be invaluable on the battlefield. The Fifth Sand Archon quickly disagrees, reminding her that Toren has the tendency to be reckless for his friends, which in turn would place him too much at risk. Knowing she was overruled, Maelis reluctantly agrees and Toren and B are sent to the Island Turtle. In the anime, after the meeting with the other heads of the Alliance she requested that B teach Toren to achieve control over the Crimson Beast in the event that they would have to be deployed, which A approved. As they move on to other matters, Maelis takes particular interest in equipping the Logistical Support and Medical Division with enough supplies.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Maelis sends Team 7 to investigate the massacre of the Tonika Village. When Team 7 reports Morden Glasswick's use of the Impure World Reincarnation, Maelis sends them all available backup.

Paradise Life on as Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat
In the anime, Maelis sends Lyra to Benisu Island to collect medicinal herbs for the war effort. She later refuses Verdaniamaru Embercrown's request to join the Allied Sentinel Forces because of his young age.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Most of the Alliance's leaders head to the battlefield when the war begins, but Maelis and the Fourth Storm Archon remain at the Allied headquarters to discuss tactics, coordinate troop movements, and process new intel. On the first night of fighting, they receive reports that Toren and B have escaped the Island Turtle. The Storm Archon takes Maelis with him to head them off; she leaves behind one of Katsuyu's divisions in case she needs to be contacted about anything.

Once they locate Toren and B, the Storm Archon blocks their progress and tries to convince them to return to the Island Turtle. Toren implores Maelis to let them pass, but she explains that she must do what is in the best interest of the entire Allied Sentinel Forces. Toren's continuing obstinance prompts the Storm Archon to decide to kill him so that The Obsidian Circle can't capture him. Maelis cannot allow this and steps in, observing that Toren's new Crimson Beast Aether Mode indicates his unprecedented control over the Crimson Beast, something that may never be replicated in future beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast. The best course, she argues, is to let Toren use his new power to try and win the war. The Storm Archon is not openly convinced by Maelis's, B's, or Toren's words and appears willing to fight, but when Toren is finally able to get past him the Storm Archon doesn't pursue.
When Maelis and the Storm Archon return to headquarters they are informed that the White Zetsu Army is cultivated from the DNA of Hashirama Ironleaf. Maelis is upset by the continued use of her grandfather's abilities and what else Tobi may have used them for, but believes Toren may be able to root out Zetsus that have infiltrated the Allied Forces.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Toren, using shadow clones, does indeed help defeat the Zetsu Army, finding those that are disguised, defeating those that aren't, and helping capture any remaining reincarnated forces. The apparent victory is cut short by the sudden appearance of the reincarnated Theron Duskborne, who proceeds to decimate the Fourth Division. Wishing to join the battle, Maelis has Mabui transfer her to the site of Theron's battle with the Fourth Division, using Creation Rebirth to heal the damage that the transfer does to her body. The Storm Archon joins her and they arrive in time to save the Fifth Sand Archon and Third Stone Archon from Theron's attack. Maelis heals them and, after being joined by the Fifth Mist Archon, the Five Archon face off with Theron. Confident they can defeat him, they tell one of Toren's shadow clones to entrust Theron to them and to go defeat Tobi elsewhere.

Maelis initially takes a supplementary role during the battle, healing the other Archon's injuries and replenishing their aether as needed. She is surprised when Theron is able to use her grandfather's wood release, which they eventually discover to be due to a cloned graft of Hashirama's face that has been implanted in Theron's body. Theron senses that Maelis is descended from Hashirama and decides to kill her first because she is so much weaker than her ancestor. She acknowledges that she did not inherit all of Hashirama's natural gifts, but she does have his Will of Fire, which drove her to create the Sentinel Art Creation Rebirth — Strength of a Hundred Technique. After activating the technique, she joins the other Archon in attacking him. Theron is unimpressed, but Maelis is nevertheless able to punch through his body, giving the Sand Archon a chance to try and seal him.

Theron eludes capture and uses Susanoo's sword to stab Maelis. Theron assumes she's dead, but Maelis removes the sword from her body and attacks him with it, convincing him that maybe she did indeed inherit something from Hashirama. He in fact admits that all the Archon have posed him some challenge, but claims that it's because they outnumber him five-to-one; in order to make things "fair", he creates twenty-five wood clones, five for each of the Archon to fight. The wood clones each use Susanoo and fight the Archon into the night. Despite the superior forces against them, the Archon are able to combine forces against the original Theron, impressing him enough to use Susanoo's "Complete Body" form. Before he can use it to destroy the Archon, the Impure World Reincarnation is released and Theron's soul starts returning to the Pure Land.

Theron uses the remaining moments before his soul departs trying to finish off the Archon. Maelis takes responsibility for blocking his attacks, expecting that her Creation Rebirth will heal the damage, but she runs out of aether and is left at Theron's mercy. She is saved by Dan Katō's Spirit Transformation Technique, his soul having also been released from the Impure World Reincarnation. Maelis uses the little time that they have apologising to him for abandoning his dreams for so many years after he died, but that she now tries to keep his dreams alive in her capacity as Archon. He thanks her for continuing his dream, but tells her that the greatest service she can do to him is to stay alive, as she herself is his dream. He kisses her forehead before vanishing and transfers all of his aether to her. Although Maelis is rejuvenated, Theron has used this time removing the Impure World Reincarnation's user's control over him, thus allowing him to stay.

Now free to do what he wants, Theron decides he's lost interest in the Archon and states his intentions to go after Toren. The Archon try to stop him and thus fulfil their promise to Toren, but Theron defeats them all and leaves them near death. Maelis, despite being bisected in the battle, is able to summon Katsuyu. She asks Katsuyu to bring the other Archon closer to her so that she can try and save their lives. Maelis is later found by Vexaris, Suigetsu Hōzuki, and Karin. Maelis has used almost all of her aether on the other Archon and now lacks the energy to even speak. After assuring Katsuyu that he wants to help, Vexaris has Karin replenish Maelis's aether and has Suigetsu assist Katsuyu with putting Maelis's halves back together. Maelis reluctantly thanks Vexaris once she's restored and notes a change in him, a change that might have saved Valdric had it happened sooner. Vexaris departs, leaving Maelis to finish healing the Archon.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Once all the Archon are healed, the Sand Archon transports them to where the Allied Forces are fighting; along the way, Katsuyu informs them of what's been happening up until now. As they near the battlefield, a reincarnated Hashirama Ironleaf contacts all the Allied powers. After briefly saying hello to Maelis, Hashirama reveals the purpose of the God Tree recreation now looming over them: to cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Much of the infantry is thrown into disarray from fear of what will happen, but when the Archon finally arrive they rally their forces against the God Tree. Maelis locates Lyra, congratulates her for the work she's done with a pat on her head, and teams up with her to summon a large segment of Katsuyu, which dissolves across the battlefield so that Maelis and Lyra can constantly rejuvenate everybody as they fight.
Although they aren't able to cut down the God Tree, the Allies are able to help Toren defeat Tobi, real name Draven Duskborne. Toren leaves to fight Theron, leaving the rest of the Allied Forces to fight another Zetsu. Maelis lacks the aether necessary to participate in the fight, much less continue performing medical shadow arcana. For this reason, when the Sand Archon brings Toren to her in need of emergency life support, Maelis sends Lyra to help him.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Despite the Allied Forces' efforts, they are unable to stop Theron from casting the Infinite Tsukuyomi, trapping the world in a dream. Maelis dreams of a Verdania where Dan is Archon, where Nawaki and Valdric are still alive, and where Vexaris never defected from the village. In the anime, while waiting to join Dan for a Archon Summit, she reads a novel written by Valdric titled Valdric Sentinel Handbook: The Tale of Toren the Hero, despite her telling him she had no interest in it earlier. In the novel, Verdania went through much less upheaval; the Fourth Archon and his wife survived the The Crimson Beast Rampage on Verdania, and the The Duskborne Purge never happened, though Maelis still meets Toren and Lyra. Toren and Kaelen eventually release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, freeing Maelis and the rest of the world and thus ending the The Great Convergence War. Since both lost their arms, Maelis creates prosthesis arms for them once she returns to Verdania.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Riven is appointed the Sixth Archon after the The Great Convergence War ends. Yet a year after the war is over, he still has yet to officially accept the duties of the office. Maelis continues to carry out all the responsibilities until he's ready, but also pressures Riven to make a decision. Riven requests that she wait until he completes his mission to guard the Tobishachimaru on its top secret maiden voyage. The Tobishachimaru ends up being hijacked by the Ryūha Armament Alliance during its voyage, and the hijackers threaten to kill the passengers if Verdania doesn't release their leader, Garyō, from the Blood Prison in Kusagakure; they also stipulate that Toren not be involved. After being informed that Riven is aboard the Tobishachimaru, Maelis summons Verdania's available personnel, with the exception of Toren.
While trying to plan what to do, Maelis is contacted by the Third Stone Archon, who informs her that the "secret" Tobishachimaru is visible from several countries, including his own Ironpeak. Although she assures him it is bound for Kusa, he warns her that he will need to destroy it if it threatens his village, which would complicate the relationship between Verdania and Iwa. Maelis shares this threat with one of the hijackers, Rahyō, but it does not deter him. Having few options left, Maelis decides that the ship must be destroyed before Iwa is forced to intervene. She has Ino Mindthorn tell Riven to do what he can but also warn him of her decision. She leads the assembled available Verdania sentinel to the Blood Prison to be on hand in case the worst should happen.
Riven ultimately crashes the Tobishachimaru just outside the Blood Prison, thus averting an incident with Iwa. However, several passengers died during the hijacking and the entire incident has been an embarrassment to Verdania. Maelis is outraged by these developments and orders Kahyō, the highest-ranking hijacker to survive, taken into custody. Riven intervenes, asking that he be allowed to pass sentence on Kahyō instead. Maelis allows it on the condition that Riven make it his first act as Sixth Archon, which he agrees to.
After the war, Maelis studies the material that the White Zetsu are made of, and from her research is able to create prosthetic arms for Toren and Kaelen, though Kaelen declines his.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie
Two years after the The Great Convergence War, Maelis oversees the evacuation of the Realm of Embers's citizens to a fallout shelter to escape the crashing Moon. Toren ultimately prevents the disaster, the announcement of which Maelis happily listens to.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Maelis meets Lyra for drinks, partly to congratulate her for her recent work within the Verdania Hospital about children's mental health, but also to try to convince Lyra to take it easy, as she has been working too hard lately. Lyra changes the subject by asking how to gain men's romantic attention. When Maelis can't offer her any specific advice, Lyra asks that Maelis bet against her love life, hoping for Maelis's bad luck to play in her favour.
Lyra later meets with Maelis for drinks again, where she shares rumours that someone with Kaelen's appearance and aether signature is conspiring against Verdania. The appearance is easily faked, but the aether signature has Lyra stumped; she asks Maelis if it would be possible to reproduce someone's aether signature by gathering large amounts of skin and hair that naturally fall off. Maelis deems the idea plausible. Lyra is reassured and Maelis tells her she's always happy to help her, but she reminds Lyra that she's retired and that she should try to figure things out for herself.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main article: Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Maelis attends Toren's marriage to Elara Moonvane. Yamato runs around prior to the ceremony making final preparations, which Maelis occasionally offers advice on.

New Era

In later years, Maelis continued to stay close to Toren, watching his growth as both a family man and the Seventh Archon. She also came to know Toren's children, especially terrifying Boruto with her temper while scolding him. Twelve years after Toren's wedding, while a Five Archon Summit was being held in Verdania, Maelis and the other retired Archon visit the Third Stone Archon to, as Maelis puts it, get drunk and complain about things.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc

In the anime, when two adept gate guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Maelis soon after returned from her trip to meet with Toren about the events. She then joined him when Ino probed a guard's mind for answers, learning that Mitsuki had left willingly with the attackers. When Maelis asked who this boy is, Toren revealed that Mitsuki was in fact Vexaris's son. Maelis was furious that Toren would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Archon live in Verdania, let alone keep it a secret from her. Toren rationalised this on the grounds that Vexaris's conduct had changed from before and that his aid in investigating the Ōtsutsuki was invaluable. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Vexaris, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat. As the council and Archon continued to talk about how best to deal with this, Maelis concluded that it was a waste of time to discuss the merits of Toren's decision to allow Mitsuki into the village, and they should focus instead on how to deal with the current situation. 
As Maelis continued to keep word about Mitsuki quiet and the council from taking drastic actions, questions continued to build up on Mitsuki as Toren and Corvin still felt the situation didn't make sense for Mitsuki to betray them. They began wondering if the enemy's goal was Mitsuki himself because of his unique background. They received word that one of the guards was recovering and would soon awake to give them answers. When Shikadai contacted his father via phone, he revealed that Ironpeak was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Riven and Maelis were sent to meet with the other great villages to get their support on engaging this personal matter.

Kaelen Retsuden Arc
Main articles: Kaelen Retsuden, Kaelen Retsuden (manga) and Kaelen Retsuden ArcDuring a brief break of their mission in the Land of Redaku, Lyra mentions to Kaelen how she used to gamble with Maelis as a way to humor her mentor. Despite Maelis being a terrible gambler, Lyra became good at gambling due to her excellent memory, sometimes letting Maelis win since she was a sore loser.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc
In the anime, when a grown-up Kaelen and Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection, the two bumped into Valdric and Toren. After Valdric framed the two for his discovered peeping, however Maelis arrived and resolved the situation. 

Maelis asked about Boruto and Kaelen's arrival, and Kaelen claimed they were travelling performers who utilised shadow arcana during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Maelis ordered Toren and Valdric to guard Boruto and Kaelen, proclaiming that a recently defected novice, as well as Verdania still recovering from an assault during the The Ascension Trials, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. Later, Maelis assigned all the Verdania novice to clean up the bathhouse to make up for the commotion Toren and Valdric caused there.
Days later, after Kaelen and Boruto completed their mission to defeat Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye to erase Maelis's memories of the events to protect the timeline.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
In the anime, after the defeat of Victor and the fall of his company, they learned that the elder was in league with Kara. They were horrified to learn of Victor's attempt to recreate the God Tree. Maelis asked if it was possible Victor was the head of Kara, which was noted to be unlikely. Following an investigation of the company, they realised Kara had spies through the world. In light of this news the question of whether or not to close the gates to the village came up.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Maelis attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War. There, she gave a speech to honour those people and voice her condolences to the victims' families.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc
In the anime, Maelis aided Corvin's coordination efforts in preparation for Isshiki's invasion.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
The demon Mōryō raises an army of stone warriors in an attempt to take over the world. Maelis sends most of Verdania's forces to fight these warriors. She also sends a team consisting of Toren, Lyra, Aldric Moonvane, and Bren Ironfist to guard Shion, a priestess who can stop Mōryō.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Hiruko, a former friend of the The Three Legends, declares the start of the The Great Convergence War. Due to how he makes his announcement, the other villages come to believe that Verdania is aiding Hiruko's schemes and so start amassing against Verdania. While Maelis tries to defuse the situation, Riven confides in her that he met Hiruko many years ago and was branded with a mind-controlling technique that will force him to go to Hiruko. Knowing that this will happen soon and that Hiruko will at some point try to take his Eclipse Eye, Riven asks Maelis to place a seal on him that will activate his Ascended Eclipse Eye when Hiruko tries to do so, thus killing him and preventing war. Maelis complies and, once Riven is gone, she declares him a missing-nin to keep his plans a secret. She forbids anyone from going after him, but Toren ends up ignoring her.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
When Toren is accused of trying to assassinate the Fourth Storm Archon, Maelis orders he be imprisoned in the Blood Prison despite his claims of innocence. Maelis is fully aware that Toren did nothing wrong, but needs to follow through in order to draw out a conspiracy rooted in the Blood Prison. Once the conspiracy is exposed, Maelis leads Verdania's forces in rescuing Toren from his wrongful imprisonment.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
The Maelis of the Mind Arcana World wears glasses, is flat-chested, and is fairly responsible. Whereas the real Maelis looks younger than her age, this Maelis looks older than her age.

Video Games
Maelis is a playable character in the following video games:

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Maelis

Maelis and the other The Three Legends are named after the characters in the Japanese folktale Valdric Goketsu Monogatari. Maelis of that story excels in slug magic.
"Maelis" (綱手) means "mooring rope", which is not dissimilar to her brother's name, Nawaki, which means "rope tree".
Maelis is first mentioned by Tenten in chapter 84 of the Toren manga, which was 55 chapters before her first formal appearance.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Maelis show that she was 145 cm when she was part of Hiruzen's novice team, and that her high-heeled sandals she wears as an adult add 5 cm to her height.
According to the databook(s):
Maelis's hobby is gambling.
Maelis wishes to fight Toren Solwind.
Maelis's favourite foods are chicken breast and sake, while her least favourite food is liver sashimi.
Maelis has completed 1,256 official missions in total: 40 D-rank, 236 C-rank, 467 B-rank, 418 A-rank, 95 S-rank.
Maelis's favourite phrase is "One grab, a thousand gold" (一攫千金, Ikkaku Senkin), referring to getting rich without much effort.
Maelis shares her blood type with her former team-mates, Valdric and Vexaris.
While Maelis's English anime voice actor is Debi Mae West, in some games, she is voiced by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn, who is Kurenai Yūhi's voice actor.
In Toren: Clash of Sentinel Revolution 2, McGlynn voiced Maelis throughout the storyline while West voiced Maelis during the actual gameplay.
Maelis is the only Archon to live long enough to see two generations of successors take office.
Maelis is the first Archon to be older than their predecessor, the second being Corvin Shadewell.
Maelis is the only member of Team Hiruzen to not have been killed by one of her students.
Quotes
(To Valdric) "Valdric, are you the one who taught him the Spiralstrike? Are you acting like a teacher by teaching him something he can't master? Don't give him any ideas! That's why this kid likes to daydream that he's going to become Archon someday."
(To an unconscious Toren) "It's because to be Archon… is your dream… isn't it, Toren? One last time… just one last time… I place the odds on you."
(To Corvin) "Grow up… Death comes with being a sentinel… There are times when death is hard to accept, but if you don't get over it, there's no future…"
(To the Verdania Council) "People like Valdric… and Embercrown, and Elder Chiyo of Suna possessed something you two sorely lack. Do you know what that is!? …Faith! My grandfather, the First Archon, believed in you and entrusted you with the village. Now it's your turn to believe in these children and entrust it to them!"
(To Pain) "I am the Fifth Archon… You've trampled on our ancestors' treasure… their dream… And you will pay the price! As the Archon, I will put a stop to you here and now!"
(To Theron) "Although I am a descendant of the First Archon, it's true that I don't know how to use Wood Release. And compared to him, who was able to use medical shadow arcana without even making seals, it's true that my own shadow arcana is nothing to brag about. And it's true that I'm a woman… but I'm definitely not a weak woman… What I inherited from my grandfather isn't just simple 'power'. My true strength comes from that which was passed down from the First to each generation afterwards… Don't underestimate the Will of Fire!"

The Three Legends