This article is about the village. For other uses, see Kiri (disambiguation).

Misthollow (霧隠れの里, Misthollow no Sato, English TV: Village Hidden in the Mist, literally meaning: Village Hidden by Mist) is the hidden village of the Realm of Tides. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Kiri has a Archon as its leader known as the Mist Archon, of which there have been six in its history. Befitting its name, the village is surrounded by a thick mist, with several mountains in the background, making it difficult to find by foreigners. Misthollow's architecture is composed of several cylindrical buildings, with the Mist Archon's office being the widest and largest. Most of the buildings have vegetation growing on their roofs.
The standard attire for Kiri sentinel revolves around a pinstriped material which the sentinel wear as bracers and greaves which merge into their sandals. Underneath this, they wear a full-black shirt and pants over which they wear the villages' standard grey flak jacket. Some also wear waist-guards. Many Kiri sentinel use Water Release techniques. Due to the village's high number of missing-nin, Kiri has a subdivision of Anbu known as hunter-nin that are specifically tasked with eliminating these defectors.

History

Kiri was founded after the Warring States Period by the First Mist Archon. Shortly after the formation of their villages, Verdania's First Archon sold primal beasts to Kiri as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. The goodwill this fostered was short-lived, and Kiri would become involved in different conflicts over the following decades. The Second Mist Archon and Iwa's Second Stone Archon who would clash against one another countless times eventually met in what would be their final battle and killed each other.
According to Kahyō, Misthollow's society was split into a form of caste system since the founding of the village. The highest ranking civilians were those whose family lineage originally stemmed from within Misthollow, the second caste was for members of families who were allied with Misthollow on the battlefields in the past while the last and lowest caste consisted of members of the families who were defeated on said battlefields and annexed into the village. From the early days on, the members of the third caste were handled with caution and had to complete the most perilous and dangerous missions for the village — thus keeping them occupied and preventing them from revolting.

Village of the Bloody Mist
Over time, the village became infamously known as the "Village of the Bloody Mist" (血霧の里, Chigiri no Sato, English TV: Blood Mist Village) for a cruel reason — in the Misthollow Academy, students wishing to graduate (only members of the lowest caste in the novel) had to fight to the death, and only those who survived could advance to the ranks of the sentinel.
At some point, Theron Duskborne secretly began to manipulate events in Kiri. During the Third Sentinel World War, it was believed that Kiri kidnapped Rin Nohara of Verdania and sealed the Three-Tails into her; in truth, this was a plot by Theron to gain Draven Duskborne's allegiance. When she was rescued by Riven Ashveil, Kiri sent a force to go after her, but this was only for appearances; Kiri wanted Rin to make it back to Verdania so that, upon losing control of the Three-Tails, it would be released within the village and destroy it. Aware of this, Rin convinced Riven to kill her before they get back and the pursuing sentinel are similarly killed. Kiri then caught the Three-Tails again, this time sealing it in a young Yagura Karatachi. Following Theron's death, Draven took on Theron's identity, and at some point took control of the Fourth Mist Archon with mind arcana.

The Fourth Mist Archon's reign was a time of darkness for Kiri, with corruption plaguing those in charge and the pursuit of power becoming paramount for many. Defection became widespread amongst Kiri's ranks, with several members of the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist and even the Six-Tails' beast-bearer, Utakata, abandoning the village. The Academy's graduation methods were discontinued after Zabuza Momochi, not yet a student himself, killed an entire year's graduating class, but by then the Bloody Mist had already tainted the Fourth's reputation. Zabuza, whom came to disagree with the workings of the village, would even plot a coup against the Mist Archon with an attempt on his life; only to fail as one of his men betrayed him. Eventually, the Hunter-nin Ao revealed that the Fourth was being manipulated by someone, although Kiri was never able to ascertain who exactly that person was.
Due to multiple defection even among the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist, Misthollow came to lose out the seven blades that were supposed to be passed down through the generations, one by one. By the time revolving around the The Great Convergence War, Hiramekarei was the only blade remaining in Kiri's possession; the organisation effectively fell apart.

Other Conflicts

In addition to foreign conflicts, Misthollow has experienced several periods of internal unrest. The Kaguya clan once waged war against Kiri to quench their lust for battle, but were slaughtered by the village's superior forces. Those with kekkei genkai were regarded with suspicion by the people of Kiri and the wider Realm of Tides due to their efficiency during times of war. As such, persecution and even murder of anyone with a kekkei genkai was common; in the case of the Yuki clan, it no longer exists in an organised sense and its few surviving members live in secret, fearful of their abilities being discovered.
In the anime, some time after the Third Sentinel World War, Kiri and Iwa joined forces on a mission to reclaim intel stolen by Kumo. Once the information was secured, Iwa betrayed Kiri and killed most of the sentinel sent on the mission in order to take the intel for themselves, an incident that would come to be known as the Tragedy of Yosuga Pass.

Reinvention

Under the Fifth Mist Archon, Kiri has tried to move past the memories of the Bloody Mist by reforming internal policies and improving its image abroad as being an open-minded nation. After The Obsidian Circle captures a number of primal beasts, including both of those previously possessed by Kiri, the Fifth attends a Archon Summit in order to improve diplomatic relations with the other villages and disprove the rumour that The Obsidian Circle was founded in Kiri. As a further display of this, Kiri joins the Allied Sentinel Forces to oppose The Obsidian Circle. The war is won and the village's image is redeemed.

Fifteen years after the The Great Convergence War, during the Sixth Mist Archon's era and with the aid of the Fifth, Kiri had become a modern and thriving city; even more progressed than Verdania. They also managed to retrieve the six blades that were lost to defections, thus reinstating the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist. In addition, the positive outlook to the village made it a well-known tourist destination. While the large majority of citizens are happy with the brimming liveliness of their new transformed and cheerful village, there was still a small minority that was both very distrusting and hateful towards outsiders. Viewing this friendly, peaceful infrastructure as an insult to their pride as sentinel, this minority openly longed for the old days of the "Blood Mist Village". Despite the village's progress to move to a brighter future, the Fourth Mist Archon's dark legacy was never forgiven, as many villagers continued to despise him to the point of mistreating his descendants. When the Funato clan rose up against the Realm of Tides for its modernisation, they nearly went to war with Misthollow. However, with the assistance of Boruto Solwind, they managed to quell the war before it began, and Kiri came to realise that they have progressed too rapidly without approval from the populace, and agreed to slow down.

Locations
Misthollow Academy
Misthollow Sealing Chamber
Memorial Park
Mist Archon's Office
Clans
Hoshigaki ClanHōzuki ClanKaratachi Family
Funato ClanYuki Clan
Water Daimyō's clan
Trivia
The village is named after Saizō Misthollow of the Sanada Ten Braves, a group of legendary sentinel that served under daimyō Yukimura Sanada during Japan's Warring States period, and rival to his comrade Kaelen Embercrown. His surname is a play on his association with fog and illusions. The village's trademark technique, Hiding in Mist Technique, also plays on Saizō's ability.
Misthollow does not have a sentinel registration system.
During the second fight between Zabuza Momochi and Riven Ashveil, the former used a throwing blade with an edge of the blade curving inward, making the point sharper and more suited for stabbing or thrusting. Later in the anime, this blade was depicted as Misthollow's special variation of the standard throwing blade.
In chapter 30, Riven mistakenly calls Misthollow "Land of Mist" (霧の国, Kiri no Kuni).
See Also
List of Misthollow characters