This article is about the character. For other uses, see Morden Glasswick (disambiguation).

Morden Glasswick (薬師カブト, Glasswick Morden) spent most of his life as a spy working for many different individuals, organisations, and countries. His natural talents in intelligence-gathering and medicine attracted the attention of Vexaris when he was younger, who made Morden his right-hand man. Although Morden learns much about the world under Vexaris, he eventually decides that his life of serving others has prevented him from making an identity for himself. He thereafter seeks power and becomes a major factor in the The Great Convergence War, using his higher place in the world so that he can find where in it he belongs. After finally finding himself in the world, Morden returns to Verdania to run the orphanage there, helping others such as himself to find their own way.

Background

Morden was found as a child by Nonō Glasswick on the outskirts of a city recently destroyed in a battle; he had suffered a head injury, leaving him with no memory of his name or past. Nonō treated his wound and brought him to the Verdania Orphanage. Urushi, another orphan, placed a helmet on his head so he wouldn't be injured again, prompting Nonō to name him "Morden". Morden liked the name and left his bed that night so that he could thank her, unaware of the orphanage's strict schedule. When Nonō found him, she discovered that this was in part because he couldn't read a clock due to his poor eyesight. She gave him her glasses so that he could see, overwhelming Morden with thankfulness.
To earn money for the orphanage's operations, Nonō used her medical shadow arcana to treat injured sentinel of Verdania; Morden, having been taught medical shadow arcana by Nonō, would assist. Although the money helped, they still relied on direct funding from Verdania in order to get by. Aware of this fact, Danzō Shimura visited the orphanage one day threatening to withhold Verdania's funding if Nonō didn't turn one of the orphans over to his Root organisation. Morden, after eavesdropping on this conversation, volunteered against Nonō and Urushi's protests. Root trained Morden in espionage and over the years sent him to gain intel by, at different times, posing as a sentinel of Kumo, Kiri, Suna, and Iwa. While in Iwa, Morden's spying was discovered and an Iwa-nin cornered him. He was able to strike down his pursuer, but only afterwards discovered that it was Nonō, who was also working for Root.

Morden apologised profusely and tried to heal Nonō, but she didn't recognise his face, even when he told her his name. She died from her injuries and Morden was forced to flee before Nonō's backup found him. Once safe, Morden was disillusioned by what had happened, wondering who he was if even Nonō didn't know him. He was soon confronted by Vexaris, an underling of Danzō who'd taken an interest in Morden over the years. Vexaris explained that Danzō had been giving Nonō falsified photographs of Morden so that she would no longer recognise him when they met. This in turn allowed Danzō to pit Nonō and Morden against each other and thus eliminate Root's two most effective, and consequently, knowledgeable spies. Assuming that Vexaris planned to finish him off, Morden attacked him, distraught by the loss of both Nonō and the self-identification he'd acquired through her.

Vexaris survived the attack and suggested that Morden now try making a new identity for himself using whatever knowledge of the world he could acquire. Vexaris offered to help him in this regard and invited him to help make a new village, Otogakure, where individuality could thrive. Morden agreed and Vexaris gave him a new backstory: that he was found by Nonō - a captain of Verdania's Medic Corps - after the Battle of Kikyō Pass and adopted as her son. With this backstory, Morden was able to become a novice of Verdania, which he used to enter the biannual The Ascension Trials so that he could gather information on his fellow participants for Vexaris's use. Later, he was found by The Obsidian Circle and was turned into one of Sasori's sleeper agents so he would spy on Vexaris. Shortly afterwards, Vexaris realised the truth and freed him from this control, allowing Morden to effectively infiltrate the organisation for Vexaris. When not spying, Morden helped Vexaris with his experimentations and his studies of different Oto-nin's abilities. In the anime, Morden also helped Vexaris find genetic samples for use in the Impure World Reincarnation and also helped him escape from Soren Duskborne after his failed attempt at capturing him.

Personality
At times, Morden can seem quite open, more than willing to approach people and always confident in his own words and actions. By his own admission, he is an introvert who doesn't like to be looked at and who wants to stick to the background. He can be very critical of others, dismissing their personal desires and outlining all the flaws he perceives them to be making. To those he feels are deserving, he is nothing but polite, regarding them with deference, using the appropriate honourifics, and chastising those who don't do the same. He can be cruel, preying on sensitive topics in order to rile someone up and punctuating his comments with sarcasm. Other times he is kind, putting himself at risk and being helpful for no immediate benefit to himself.
The many contradictions of Morden's personality are a result of his frequent role as a spy, having spent most of his life changing identities and loyalties in order to gather information for some organisation. Although he's been serving Vexaris for the longest period of time, even Vexaris isn't always sure what Morden's true feelings are: he trusts Morden implicitly, yet secretly suspects that Morden might intentionally undermine him. When Morden begins working with Tobi, Tobi is careful to be on guard with Morden and keep him on a short leash, aware that Morden does not always act for the reasons he claims to; even so, Morden is able to make himself simultaneously so valuable yet so dangerous that Tobi can't really do anything about it.
Morden appears to take his shifting allegiances in stride, but in truth he suffers an ongoing identity crisis. Because of the head injury he experienced when he was younger, Morden's early past is unknown to him and he has been having to construct an identity for himself ever since. While he was recruiting Morden, Vexaris encouraged him to follow his own example and quite literally build who he wants to be out of whatever knowledge and abilities he can gather. Morden latched on to this idea at the time, but eventually realised that this was no different than what he did as a spy: aligning himself under some larger entity and then defining himself according to that. Morden decides it is better to follow Toren Solwind's example and establish his own identity by becoming even greater than those under whose shadows he's lived under, namely Vexaris. Morden sets out to become stronger, perfecting all the skills that Vexaris could not, and use the resulting power so that he would never need to be answerable to anyone ever again.
In his quest to surpass Vexaris, Morden convinces himself that he has become the "perfect" being. He uses this believed distinction in order to ally with Tobi during the The Great Convergence War, pitting Tobi against the Allied Sentinel Forces so that they will destroy themselves and enable Morden to capitalise in the aftermath. But when his plans see continued setbacks, especially in his repeated failure to defeat Kaelen and Soren Duskborne in battle, Morden's self-image as "perfect" starts to crack and he begins desperately trying to defend his final attempt at being recognised. Soren tries to explain the misstep that Morden has been making, but it isn't until he is subjected to Izanami that Morden accepts it: in the act of making an identity for himself, he has only been burying who he truly is. When he peels away all his false personas, Morden again becomes the adoptive son of Nonō Glasswick, one who could be trusted to do things on his own and who was valued by the entire orphanage because of it. Despite having claimed to have surpassed Vexaris, Morden still held great respect for Vexaris, still referring to him with the honourific "-sama".
Morden feels indebted to Soren for restoring to him the knowledge of who he is and where in the world he most belongs; he later returns the favour to Soren by saving Kaelen's life. After the war, Morden returns to the orphanage where he was raised - his long-neglected true home - and resumes the life he once had there. He believes it is vital that the orphans have identities of their own and not allow themselves to be defined by their past associations. In the anime, Vexaris expressed his confidence that Morden's chance of slipping back to his old days are even lower than himself.

Appearance

Morden has onyx eyes and ash-grey hair, which he normally keeps in a ponytail. His most consistent feature are his black rimmed circular glasses, given to him by Nonō. During Part I and for much of Part II, Morden wears a dark purple shirt with a high collar, a white under-shirt, and dark purple pants with a white cloth waistband. In Part I he wears also dark purple fingerless gloves with armoured plates on the back of the hand and a blue forehead protector. During Part II, he infuses himself with Vexaris's remains, causing his skin to turn white and scaly around the point of application on his left arm; this gradually spreads its influence across the rest of his body. In the anime's Power arc, set before his body is fully covered by Vexaris's remains, Morden wears an indigo robe with red lining and he starts allowing his hair to grow long and unkempt, all of which help to hide the changes to his body.
Once his body is fully converted, his appearance becomes starkly similar to Vexaris's, so much so that Kaelen Duskborne initially mistakes Morden for him. In addition to the changes to his skin, Morden's eyes become yellow with slitted pupils, around which are Vexaris's characteristic purple markings. A long, white snake also fuses with his abdomen, which he wraps around his waist and which sometimes slithers under or behind him like a tail. His mostly human appearance is actually a shell, as his true form is much more serpentine, having a long body, comparatively short legs and arms, and an elongated face. During the The Great Convergence War, Morden wears a maroon-coloured cloak with a hood designed to resemble a serpent's head, with white, red, and yellow markings that resemble eyes. Many years later, after returning to the orphanage, he starts wearing the staff's typical garb and once again ties his hair in a ponytail, although the effects of infusing himself with Vexaris's remains appear to be permanent, as Morden's body continues to resemble Vexaris's.

Abilities

While Morden was just a child he possessed a natural talent in the sentinel arts, a trademark that caught the attention of Vexaris upon first meeting Morden and studying his service record with Root, which ultimately led to Morden being his right-hand man. In Part I, Morden's skills are noted to be comparable to Riven Ashveil's, and enough to defeat members of Verdania's Anbu with ease, noting that they should have readied at least ten guards for him. Maelis even notes that his knack for shadow arcana and his sharpness surpass that of hers in her prime. During Part II, Morden sets out to correct the talents he feels were never fully realised: he later boasts that he has surpassed Vexaris, is the closest living person to match the power of the Sage of Six Paths, and is the single most important player in the entire The Great Convergence War. Morden's improved prowess enabled him to overwhelm Kaelen and the reincarnated Soren, two Duskborne clan prodigies, several times in battle.

Body Modifications
In order to achieve the "perfect being" identity he desires for himself, Morden makes several modifications to his body by infusing himself with the genetic information of Vexaris and his various experiments, causing him to develop a different aether signature and granting him a larger reserve that is strong enough to visibly effect his surroundings. The first and most notable of these modifications was infusing himself with the remains of Vexaris's body, thus obtaining the Power of the White Snake. Over time, the remains alter his body, making his "true" appearance very snake-like, in which he can move around quickly and use his large mouth to swallow and thus capture targets. He usually disguises his appearance within a more normal-looking skin, which he can shed as needed. This outer skin has a snake embedded in its navel, which he can merge with others' bodies in order to heal them. Morden can in fact produce white snakes of varying sizes from his body, either to act as additional appendages or to detach from him and carry out his will. These snakes can use their heightened senses to communicate targets' locations to him, communicate on his behalf, possess his aether signature to throw off sensor types, and share some of his other bodily modifications.

From his extensive study of Vexaris's various human test subjects, Morden alters his body to replicate certain others' trademark skills: he creates a version of Suigetsu Hōzuki's Hydrification Technique to escape capture by liquefying his body; he can reproduce Karin's natural Solwind-based rejuvenation to heal injuries he suffers; he can use Jūgo's kekkei genkai to passively absorb natural energy, allowing him to continuously use Elder Form without the need of remaining still. While in Elder Form, he can make further use of others' abilities through his Strange Transmission Distant Shadow technique, granting him all the skill-sets of whoever he has genetic samples of. He does this through an application of Sakon's body merging ability, generating mindless clones of others from his navel snake that can use all of their techniques. With this, he is able to access the abilities of the Sound Five, such as Kimimaro's accelerated bone production and Kidōmaru's spider web-based bindings.

Shadow Arcana
Morden's natures include Earth, Water, Wind, Fire (in the anime), as well as Yin and Yang release. He can use Earth Release to travel underground and, with Jirōbō's DNA, upend the earth. He can also use Water Release without a nearby water source, able to create large water projectiles and water dragons. In the anime, he can use his Fire Release as a smokescreen to hide his escape. Morden can produce barriers to hide his location and, in the anime, make himself invisible.

Medical Shadow Arcana

Morden was taught medical shadow arcana by Nonō Glasswick when he was young and immediately displayed a natural talent for it. He can heal most injuries without difficulty, even performing the ordinarily close-contact Mystical Palm Technique from a slight distance. He invents Yin Healing Wound Destruction as a way of keeping test subjects alive longer by preemptively healing damage they receive, but he can also use it on himself when he expects to be badly injured. He uses aether scalpels quite extensively outside their intended surgical use, either to cut through defences or augment his physical strikes, severing muscles on contact in order to disable opponents. Morden was also able to sever the aether pathway system, which also prevented a beast-bearer from receiving aether from their tailed-beast.
Morden has an unprecedented knowledge of the human body, enough that, when his body's electrical signals are scrambled, he is able to quickly compensate and relearn how to control his limbs. For others, he can use his knowledge to create drugs to various effects, either as pain killers, hormones to enhance physical attributes, to aid against bodily deterioration, poisons to specifically neutralise a particular target's abilities or immunities, and truth serums to aid in interrogations. Morden has a unique affinity for corpses, able to reanimate them for use as allies in combat or decoys; in the case of the latter, he can quickly alter the corpse's appearance to look like someone else, which is so convincing that the alteration is only noticeable on close scrutiny. He in fact likes to keep a supply of variously-aged corpses with him at all times, which he stores in scrolls until he needs them.

Summoning
Morden uses his own blood to help Vexaris summon snakes a few times in Part I, but it's not until after he takes on Vexaris's remains that he starts summoning snakes for himself. Like the snakes he makes with his own body, he can use these snake to restrain targets or inject them with venom or various drugs. He also managed to clone and genetically augment animals for his own usage, such as Manda II — a much larger and stronger clone of Manda. In the anime's Power arc, he summons several other varieties of modified snakes that can absorb aether, morph into copies of himself, and small clone snakes that can combine into replicas of others.

Morden claims to have perfected the Impure World Reincarnation: he is able to reincarnate dozens of individuals at a time - something its creator, Tobirama Ironleaf, could not - and bring them back with the same power they had while alive - something Vexaris could not. Morden typically allows his reincarnated forces to keep their personalities while they carry out his bidding, making them more effective and allowing for a degree of psychological warfare against those who knew them when alive. By siphoning aether from Vexaris's cursed seals, he can remotely suppress their personalities and take full control of their actions. In the case of Theron Duskborne's reincarnated body, Morden makes several modifications to it in order to restore Theron's youth and give him the Void Eye and Wood Release.

Ironleaftsu

Due to the larger aether reserves he gains from Vexaris's remains, Morden is able to learn senarcana from the White Snake Sage at the Serpent's Hollow. This allows him to enter Elder Form, which he can use indefinitely due to his replication of Jūgo's passive ability to constantly absorb natural energy. In Elder Form, Morden's only noticeable physical alterations are the markings around his eyes, the four horns on the back of his head, and brille to give him immunity to mind arcana and other visual attacks; he describes his transformation as changing him from a snake to a dragon. Using Elder Form makes Morden's arcana and physical attacks stronger, improves his physical defences, heightens his speed and reflexes, and allows him to sense his surroundings. He can also infuse natural energy into inanimate objects, giving them life.

Intelligence
During his years in Root, Morden became one of the organisation's best spies, a role he continued to serve for Vexaris. Over the years, he uncovers a great deal of information unknown to most of the world, such as how Zetsus are made, the truth surrounding the The Duskborne Purge, and Tobi's true identity. Like Vexaris, Morden has shown himself as an extensive researcher, performing multiple experiments to empower or neutralise an individual's abilities. In combat, Morden can use his gathered knowledge to plan around an opponents' abilities by employing appropriate countermeasures. This also speaks to his considerable ability to manipulate opponents, as he frequently tries to break down their resolve, turn them against their allies, or even come up with similarities that might convince them to join forces with him. Even if his manipulations fail or they cannot in and of themselves benefit him, Morden is good at making all possible outcomes work in his favour: the Allied Sentinel Forces' losses helped his stated objective of winning the The Great Convergence War, while the Allied Sentinel Forces' victories helped his long-term objective of undermining The Obsidian Circle.

Other Skills
Although Morden rarely uses mind arcana, his high skill with it allows him to put a large number of people to sleep. After integrating Tayuya's DNA, he could use trap Soren and Kaelen in her flute-based mind arcana, and despite the two being mind arcana masters, they were unable to break it independently. Although Morden admits that body arcana is not his forte, he has shown to have good reflexes, reacting to threats just in time to defend himself or allies as well as fending off Toren Solwind's and his shadow clones despite being outnumbered.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Morden is teamed with Yoroi Akadō and Misumi Tsurugi so that they can enter the The Ascension Trials being held in Verdania. Before the exam's first stage begins, Morden befriends the Rookie Nine. Because they're all quite confident in their prospects, he warns them about the exam's inherent difficulty as well as the considerable competition that some of the other participants pose. He confesses that he has little information on the sentinel of Oto, but he doesn't feel this is an issue. This provokes the eavesdropping Dosu Kinuta - an Oto-novice - to attack him; although Morden dodges, Dosu's Resonating Echo Speaker shatters his glasses and makes him nauseous. The exam proctors break up the fight.
As the second stage of the exams near completion, Morden finds the members of Team 7 in the Forest of Death, arriving in time to stop Toren Solwind from opening one of the scrolls they're supposed to be gathering; he explains that doing so results in unconsciousness and thus failure. When asked, he explains that he was separated from his team and that he's on his way to meet them with the two scrolls he's acquired. Kaelen Duskborne challenges him to a fight, needing one of the scrolls if Team 7 is to pass. Morden suggests that they instead trying taking a scroll from one of the teams gathering in the centre of the forest. He offers to help them in exchange for accompanying him, providing safety in numbers.
As they approach the centre and the deadline to finish nears, Morden and Team 7 are caught in a mind arcana by Team Oboro, who have similar plans of taking scrolls as they do. Toren uses shadow clones to draw out Team Oboro, who fight his clones with their own haze clones. Morden is impressed by Toren's large aether supply, but, as Kaelen discovers with his Eclipse Eye, the fight is meaningless since the haze clones are only a distraction. Team Oboro tries sneaking up on Toren and attacking him, which Morden blocks, becoming injured instead; he exudes killing intent in response, creating an opening for Toren to knock them out. Team 7 takes Team Oboro's scroll and Morden accompanies them to the centre of the forest where he reunites with his team. He thanks Team 7 for their help.
Morden and his team meet with Vexaris before the next stage of the exams start and Morden gives him the intel he's gathered on Kaelen. They then assemble with the other qualifying teams and are informed that one-on-one preliminary matches will be held. Morden opts to withdraw. When asked by Toren, he claims to be too tired from his encounters with Dosu and Team Oboro to fight. When asked by Yoroi, he claims that this will give Yoroi and Misumi a chance to earn Vexaris's favour. In truth, Morden is concerned that he won't be able to hold himself back in combat and that he'll end up blowing his cover; Vexaris's presence in the audience also means Morden no longer needs to gather intel for him. Morden leaves with the Third Archon's permission, eager for his next encounter with Toren and Kaelen.

Morden meets with Vexaris after the preliminaries conclude. Although he doesn't want to trigger his long-term plans yet, Vexaris is concerned about Kaelen's development, believing that Toren is having too positive an influence on him. He sends Morden to capture Kaelen while it's still possible for Vexaris to corrupt him. Morden locates Kaelen in the Verdania Hospital and kills his eight Anbu guards. He is discovered by Riven Ashveil before he can accomplish his task and is forced to flee through the window. He meets with Baki of Duneholm later that night to discuss their villages' planned invasion of Verdania. When they notice that their conversation is being listened to by Hayate Gekkō, Morden offers to eliminate him, but Baki does so instead.
A month later, during the final matches of the The Ascension Trials, Morden kills one of the Anbu guarding the stadium where the finals are being held. He disguises himself with the Anbu's clothes and mask so that he can infiltrate the stadium and watch Toren's match. During the fight, Elara Moonvane starts having a coughing fit—still recovering from her preliminary match with Aldric Moonvane prior a month ago. Morden offers to treat her and she is healed, but falls unconscious; Morden knocks out Kiba Fangcrest and Akamaru as well.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

The invasion of Verdania is supposed to be initiated by Suna's Zephros. When Zephros ends up being injured during his fight with Kaelen and thus left unable to fulfil his intended role, Morden initiates the invasion instead: he uses the Temple of Nirvana Technique to put most of the people in the stadium to sleep. Some of Verdania's forces are able to fend off his mind arcana and engage other Oto-nin that infiltrated the stadium. Morden, however, avoids fighting, and both he and Baki are eventually cornered by Riven and Garron Steelhart. When he notices Vexaris fleeing his own fight with the Third Archon, Morden decides to flee as well and advises that Baki do the same.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis
During the failed invasion, Vexaris's arms are bound by the Dead Demon Consuming Seal. Morden tries healing them and, when that doesn't work, he provides Vexaris with medicine for the pain, but those are also ineffective. With few other options available, Vexaris has Morden locate Maelis, one of his fellow The Three Legends. Morden tracks her to Tanzaku Quarters and they go to meet her. Upon finding her, Vexaris offers to reincarnate her brother and lover in exchange for her healing his arms. This proposal provokes Maelis's attendant, Shizune, into attacking Vexaris with a Prepared Needle Shot, which Morden blocks. When Maelis displays a certain willingness to attack them herself, Vexaris sheds some of his own blood, paralysing her due to her hemophobia. He and Morden leave, giving Maelis a week to decide.

As they return to Tanzaku Quarters a week later, Vexaris is confident that Maelis will heal his arms. However, he believes Shizune may represent an issue, so he sends Morden to kill her. Morden finds her in the company of Toren and Valdric, another The Three Legends, forcing him to withdraw and return to Vexaris. He arrives in time to stop Maelis's apparent healing of Vexaris's arms, having noticed her killing intent. Since she won't cooperate, Vexaris decides that they must fight her and take her by force, though because of his arms, he relies on Morden to do the actual fighting; they draw her away from the city so that Shizune and the others can't help her.
Because of how strong Maelis's attacks are, Morden stays out of her reach as much as he can, only striking when he can get in a disabling blow. Maelis heals all the damage he does to her and Morden similarly recovers from her counterattacks. When they are found by Shizune, Valdric, and Toren, Morden slits his wrists so that Maelis is paralysed with fear and thus unable to fight back. Toren is confused by Morden's presence, slow to realise he's working for Vexaris; Morden informs him that it's this sort of ignorance that prevents him from matching Kaelen. Toren attacks him with shadow clones, which Morden easily fends off. He then fights Shizune, quickly knocking her out while he attempts to restrain Maelis. Toren stops him and tries attacking with the Spiralstrike, but he lacks full mastery of it and misses.

Morden tries to convince Toren to give up, as otherwise he will be killed and thus left unable to achieve his dream of becoming Archon. Toren refuses, so Morden attacks with a throwing blade. Toren catches the throwing blade and latches on to Morden's hand, preventing him from escaping while Toren strikes with another Spiralstrike. Morden is propelled backwards and tries healing the damage with his Yin Healing Wound Destruction, but the damage is too extensive and he collapses. Toren also collapses, Morden having severed his heart muscles when the Spiralstrike hit him; he boasts that nothing can be done to save Toren, but Maelis is able to successfully heal him. The fight is now left to Vexaris and Morden helps him summon Manda. Maelis overcomes her haemophobia and defeats both Manda and Vexaris, forcing him and Morden to retreat.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
Since Maelis won't help, the only way for Vexaris to heal his arms is to transfer to a new body, which he selects Kaelen's for. He sends the Sound Four to recruit Kaelen and Morden tends to him while he waits. The Sound Four end up taking too long and Morden takes it upon himself to find a different body: he has several of their prisoners fight each other to the death, with Vexaris taking the body of the victor, Gen'yūmaru. While Vexaris does that, Morden talks to Kimimaro, reminding him that Vexaris's current predicament is his fault since he became ill, thus making him unsuitable as Vexaris's new body. This compels Kimimaro to go retrieve Kaelen as his last act of service, which Vexaris characterises as cruel of Morden when he learns of it.
Kaelen does eventually arrive at their lair, though Kimimaro and the Sound Four have all died. When Kaelen acts disrespectful towards Vexaris, Morden advises him on proper etiquette, to which Kaelen responds with killing intent; Morden is surprised by this and Vexaris is pleased.

Part II
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

Over two-and-a-half years after Kaelen joins forces with Vexaris, Morden is summoned to meet with Sasori at the Tenchi Bridge in Kusagakure. Pretending to be his loyal agent, Morden answers Sasori's questions about Kaelen, telling him that he's at Vexaris's nearby base. Vexaris confronts them during their meeting and Morden retreats closer to Sasori. While Sasori talks to Vexaris and prepares to fight him alongside Morden, Morden cuts through Sasori's puppet, Hiruko. Having never seen the real Sasori before, Morden initially believes the man inside Hiruko is him, but when Toren and the rest of Team 7 join Yamato he realises his mistake. Vexaris taunts Toren about his desire to see Kaelen again, provoking him into using the Crimson Beast' aether. Morden attempts to attack him, but Toren easily blasts him away with a mere roar.
Once he recovers, Morden approaches Yamato and Lyra Bloomhart and asks if their presence here means that Sasori is dead, which they confirm. He watches Toren's fight with Vexaris, observing that Toren's version 2 form is proof of how desperate he is to retrieve Kaelen. When Toren, not in control of his actions, injures Lyra, Morden heals her wound as his thanks for their killing Sasori and thus weakening The Obsidian Circle. While Yamato restrains Toren, Morden goes looking for Vexaris and finds him with Team 7's other member, Sai. He initially assumes that Sai means to attack Vexaris and therefore tackles him, but Vexaris informs him that Sai is an ally and they take him back to their base. They notice that the rest of Team 7 is following them, apparently because of Sai, so Morden prepares a fake dead body that looks like Sai for them to leave behind and throw Team 7 off their trail.

When they get back to their base, Morden finds a room for Sai to stay in and then leaves to analyse the intel that Sai has given them. He accidentally leaves the intel in Sai's room and goes back for it, but both Sai and the intel are gone. He tracks Sai down and finds he's been captured by the rest of Team 7. Morden releases Sai from his confinements, defeats Toren's shadow clones, and requests Sai's help in fighting Team 7, but Sai restrains him instead. When asked, Morden is forthcoming with information about where to find Kaelen, though he warns them against it since they may draw out Vexaris. Yamato leaves behind a wood clone to guard Morden while they go searching. Vexaris eventually finds and frees him and they go to find Kaelen, arriving in time to stop him from killing Team 7. Morden recommends Kaelen spare them since they may further weaken The Obsidian Circle, which he agrees with. Morden then departs with Vexaris and Kaelen.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance
In the anime, as Vexaris's body starts to reject him, he instructs Morden to bring him Guren. Guren challenges Morden to a fight as he nears her location in order to test if he is worthy to serve Vexaris. He meets with her approval and she accompanies him to Vexaris. Vexaris offers Guren an opportunity to replace Kaelen as his next body if she can prove herself on a mission; Morden is tasked with gathering a team for her from their assorted prisoners. Guren ends up failing her mission, so Morden is sent to give her another task: help him capture the Three-Tails. Guren fails to restrain the Three-Tails with her crystal release and Yūkimaru, whose abilities are essential in capturing the Three-Tails, is himself captured by Verdania-nin.
With things becoming desperate, Morden tricks members of Guren's team into undergoing operations that will forcibly activate their cursed seals. He also kills and impersonates Rinji, and in that role tries to manipulate Yūkimaru into unleashing the Three-Tails against Guren and Verdania's forces. Yūkimaru refuses to do so, prompting Morden to attack him; Toren counters the attack and, in the process, exposes the Rinji disguise. While Morden fights Toren, he uses Rinji's reanimated body to attack Guren, neutralising her crystal release with Rinji's bats. Guren seemingly gives her life to defeat Rinji and Yūkimaru, overcome with grief, finally unleashes the Three-Tails. Morden leaves, satisfied with what's happened.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

With Vexaris's body on the verge of failure, Morden prepares the strongest medication he can to help him cope with the pain. As he's away getting the medicine ready, he notes that Vexaris will need to take Kaelen's body within the next day or two, though he doubts Kaelen will be cooperative. When he returns, he finds Kaelen leaving Vexaris's room, with Vexaris's body now lying abandoned. Morden asks Kaelen who he is, unable to tell if the body transfer was successful or not. Kaelen uses Mind Arcana: Eclipse Eye to show Morden how he overpowered Vexaris's consciousness and absorbed it into his own. Morden is surprised by this and Kaelen leaves without further comment.
Morden later tracks down Toren, who is in the company of Yamato and Elara Moonvane. He confirms to Toren the rumours that Kaelen has killed Vexaris and then gives him a book with all the intel that he and Vexaris have gathered on The Obsidian Circle over the years. When Toren and the others can't understand why he would do this, he explains that it is a present for Toren, partly to help Toren in his own confrontations with The Obsidian Circle and partly out of gratitude. He tells them how lost he felt after Vexaris's death, having identified himself in terms of Vexaris for so long, in the same way that Toren was once identified in terms of the Crimson Beast. Toren, however, was able to forge out on his own and establish himself as independent of the Crimson Beast; Morden now intends to follow his example and establish himself as greater than Vexaris.

Morden shows them how he has grafted Vexaris's remains into his body, which Elara notices with her Lunar Eye are in the process of taking control of him. Morden claims that the remains themselves make him stronger, as does the constant struggle to keep them at bay. Toren and the others try capturing him, but he retreats, vowing to fight Toren once he's mastered Vexaris's powers and also dealt with Kaelen. Morden further crafts himself over the following weeks and months: he uses his research of different human test subjects to modify his body; he finds Serpent's Hollow and learns senarcana from the White Snake Sage; he acquires DNA samples of various dead sentinel, some of which, in the anime, he or Vexaris already possessed; Black Zetsu meets him at some point and shows him the corpse of Theron Duskborne.

Power
Main article: Power

In the anime, Morden is hired by Disonasu to help him access the Ama no Hoko. He attacks Tonika Village with reincarnated pawns and slaughters most of the villagers in preparation for awakening the Ama no Hoko, which soon draws the attention of Team 7. He's able to create a clone of Hidan to attack them, but the forces he raises with the Impure World Reincarnation are unresponsive to his commands. He decides to retreat, leaving behind a reincarnated Deidara as a distraction while he tries to figure out a way improve his control of the Impure World Reincarnation.
After figuring out a way to allow reincarnated individuals to retain their personalities, Morden sneaks into the Hachō Village by reincarnating the Tonika Village Head. They try making the final preparations for restoring the Ama no Hoko, but they are discovered by the village head's granddaughter and Morden is drawn into another battle with Team 7. During the fight, a Nine-Tailed Toren Clone emerges, having been inadvertently created during Morden's previous fight with Toren. With some difficulty, Morden is able to capture the clone, the original Toren, and Dokku. He brings them to Disonasu, who is now able to activate the Ama no Hoko. Verdania sentinel start attacking and Morden uses his reincarnated forces to fight them off, but they are interrupted by the Toren clone's sudden mutation. While the others deal with the clone, Morden quietly leaves.
After the fighting is over, Morden locates the dying Disonasu and summons the Tonika Village Head, who he allows to finish Disonasu off in order to have revenge. Morden afterwards sheds his skin, having finally gotten Vexaris's power under control.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

Once he's confident that he's mastered Vexaris's powers, Morden travels to the Mountains' Graveyard to confront Tobi of The Obsidian Circle, who has been using the name of Theron Duskborne in order to start the The Great Convergence War. Tobi recognises Morden as a former spy of Sasori, so he tries to kill him for betraying The Obsidian Circle. Morden responds by using the Impure World Reincarnation to revive five deceased The Obsidian Circle members, which he offers to use to help Tobi in the approaching war. Tobi asks what Morden would want in exchange for this alliance, to which Morden responds he wants Kaelen. When Tobi contemplates refusing, Morden summons the real Theron Duskborne, forcing Tobi to agree. He stipulates, however, that Morden can't have Kaelen until after the war is won, which Morden agrees to.
Tobi incorporates Morden and his reincarnated army into his war plans. When they later receive intel on the location of Toren and Raxon Thundermane - whose capture is the reason Tobi started the war - Morden offers to capture them himself if Tobi will show him the White Zetsu Army. Tobi complies, also showing him the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path and the biomass of Hashirama Ironleaf that the Zetsus are cultivated from. Satisfied, Morden reincarnates Deidara and together they fly to the Island Turtle. As they approach, they draw the patrolling Third Stone Archon away, creating an opening for a simultaneous attack on the island by Morden's Manda II and Deidara's Explosive Clay.

Deidara drops Morden off on the Island Turtle and then keeps the Stone Archon busy so that Morden can find Toren and B. He is quickly found by Toren's guards and his body is bound by Kurotsuchi. Believing Morden's been captured, Aoba Yamashiro approaches him with the intention of reading his mind to see what he knows about The Obsidian Circle. In short order, Morden sheds his skin to get free, captures Yamato, and takes refuge within Manda II's nose; Manda II escapes and Morden withdraws Deidara. Tobi is angry with Morden when he returns since he wanted Toren and B, not Yamato. Morden explains that studying Yamato's wood release will allow him to make the White Zetsu Army stronger. He adds that Yamato has intel they can use, which finally convinces Tobi.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

Once all their preparations are completed, Morden and Tobi mobilise their respective armies against the Allied Sentinel Forces. While Tobi is busy overseeing that, Morden locates Anko Mitarashi nearby, who he led to the Mountains' Graveyard with a trail of dead bodies. Morden captures her after a brief fight. Tobi discovers this and demands that Morden kill her. Morden refuses, explaining that he can use her Cursed Seal of Heaven to strengthen his use of the Impure World Reincarnation, which is in Tobi's interests. Tobi stipulates that he'll only allow this if Morden thoroughly demonstrates how the Impure World Reincarnation works, and to that end instructs him to reincarnate Torune Hivewood using Fū Mindthorn as a sacrifice. Morden complies and Tobi is satisfied. Morden afterwards takes the opportunity to request Tobi's help in reincarnating Shisui Duskborne and Valdric, which Tobi refuses.
Morden relocates to a remote area to start monitoring his reincarnated forces. When several encounter the Allied Sentinel Forces' Third Division, Morden drains the aether from Anko's cursed seal to fully suppress his reincarnated forces' personalities, turning them into pure killing machines. He's very satisfied with the causalities that the Third Division suffer, so he sends all of his Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist to join the battle. Exerting so much control over his combatants requires a great deal of effort on Morden's part, for which reason he allows his other forces to retain their personalities and uses other tactics instead: when the Second Stone Archon is discovered by the Fourth Division, Morden sends the Second Mist Archon, Third Storm Archon, and Fourth Sand Archon to reinforce him; against the First Division, he sends a number of individuals whose reincarnation will unnerve members of the Allied Sentinel Forces, thus potentially making them less effective.
Morden's forces have mixed results: though the Third Division experiences heavy losses, they are able to figure out an effective, if slow, way of defeating the reincarnated forces; the Fourth Division chooses to retreat from the reincarnated Archon; the First Division defeats or captures all of their reincarnated opponents, most notably Morden's Gold and Silver Brothers. He sends Hanzō against Mifune of the Fifth Division, expecting an easy victory, but Hanzō deliberately creates an opportunity for the Fifth Division to capture him and Morden doesn't suppress his personality in time to stop him. On the first night of the war, Tobi takes the captured Gold and Silver Brothers from the First Division, which Morden guesses to mean he's getting impatient with his plans. When he learns that Toren and Raxon Thundermane have left their confinements, Morden becomes determined to capture them so that he can use them as leverage against Tobi.
Morden sends Erevan and Soren Duskborne against Toren and B, expecting that their respective Void Eye and Ascended Eclipse Eye will overpower Toren and B. Soren, however, is able to remove Morden's control over him and teams up with Toren and B against Erevan. Morden attempts to temporarily kill Toren and B with Erevan while he tries to regain control of Soren, but Erevan is defeated. Meanwhile, the Fourth Division finally starts fighting the reincarnated Archon, eventually defeating each of them with the help of one of Toren's shadow clones. With his forces dwindling, Morden decides he'll need to use his "trump card". In the anime, the trump card requires preparation, so he tries different ways of buying time: he sends Hayate Gekkō to acquire DNA samples of dead members of the Allied Sentinel Forces so that he can reincarnate them, but this fails; he sends a force led by Torune Hivewood to release the captured reincarnated sentinel from their bindings, but this fails as well.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax
Although the Second Stone Archon was apparently defeated and captured, he split apart at the last moment without the Fourth Division's notice. Morden takes control of the uncaptured half of the Stone Archon and through him summons to the battlefield his trump card: Theron Duskborne. He uses the Stone Archon to speak to Theron, introducing himself, explaining the modifications he's made to Theron's body (his youth, his Void Eye, and a graft of Hashirama Ironleaf), and requesting a demonstration of Theron's powers. Theron complies, and after destroying much of the Fourth Division he asks Morden why Tobi hasn't kept to their plans. Because Morden doesn't know what exactly their plans are he can't give an answer, but he knows Theron requires the Crimson Beast and so directs him to Toren. Theron then turns his attention to fighting the Allied Sentinel Forces and Morden relinquishes his control of the Stone Archon.

Morden monitors Theron's fight until he is found in his cave by Soren (using information received earlier from Erevan). Soren states his intentions to kill Morden in order to end the Impure World Reincarnation, so Morden informs him that the technique will not end with his death. Soren is quickly joined by Kaelen, who initially mistakes Morden for Vexaris. Kaelen has other business with Soren and tries to kill Morden, but Soren blocks his attack. Morden, aware that Kaelen wants to confront Soren about the The Duskborne Purge, tries to convince Kaelen to join forces with him, but Kaelen refuses. Since Soren's only option of stopping him is to use mind arcana, Morden covers his eyes with his hood and sends his snakes to attack them. They destroy the snakes with their Susanoo and then attack Morden himself.

Morden is able to slip free of their Susanoo using his research of Suigetsu Hōzuki's Hydrification Technique; he then heals the little damage he did receive using his research of Karin's Solwind-lineage. Because Kaelen was on a team with both of Suigetsu and Karin, he asks if Morden also has the abilities of its other member, Jūgo. Morden confirms this, explaining how he used Jūgo's passive ability to absorb natural energy in order to achieve Elder Form, a state Vexaris was never able to master and thus proof that Morden has surpassed him. Morden uses the brille of his Elder Form form to shield his eyes and then blinds Soren and Kaelen. Because Kaelen is unable to sustain his Susanoo, Morden tries to go after him, but Soren blocks the attack.

Kaelen and Soren go on the offensive and coordinate attacks with their Susanoo. Morden avoids serious injury and is able to take Kaelen's sword, which he uses to stab Soren. Soren in turn takes the sword back and uses it to cut off the tip of one of Morden's horns. Although their attack didn't seem to have much effect, Kaelen and Soren are nevertheless pleased by how well they work together. Morden once again tries convincing Kaelen to change sides, reminding him of all Soren's lies and manipulations and explaining how he, like Kaelen, also wants to destroy Verdania. Kaelen is too committed to Soren to betray him, so Morden explores his own similarities to Soren: how both of them sacrificed their identities for Verdania's greater good and how neither was appreciated for it. This also fails, so Morden attacks, manipulating the cave's interior to crush them; Soren uses his own body to protect Kaelen.

Morden tries to get close to Soren so that he can regain control over his body, but Kaelen keeps him away with Amaterasu until Soren's body recovers. Soren admits that he used to be like Morden, as he also struggled with who he was and tried to define himself by becoming perfect. He eventually discovered that this was the wrong tactic and that the only way to understand himself was to accept his faults. Morden is unmoved, having thought long and hard about one's identity and now firmly committed to his current course. He uses his Strange Transmission Distant Shadow technique in order to manifest aspects of the Sound Five and even Vexaris, using their broad range of abilities to overwhelm Soren and Kaelen from a safe distance. They counter each of his attacks and Soren continues trying to reason with him, frustrating Morden enough that he moves closer in order to attack Soren in person.

Morden and Kaelen briefly exchange attacks while Soren's body recovers. Morden avoids serious injury and is able to take Kaelen's sword, which he uses to stab Soren. Soren in turn takes the sword back and uses it to cut off the tip of the same horn as before. Morden notes the déjà vu of this previous exchange, but thinks nothing of it and resumes the attack. However, the exchange keeps happening over and over, with his horn reappearing each time only to be cut off again: this is Soren's Izanami, a mind arcana that traps its victims using a sensory loop rather than vision. Morden realises that something has happened to him, but none of the arcana he tries are able to change the outcome. While Morden is trapped in his own mind, Soren opens his brille and uses a mind arcana to force him to release the Impure World Reincarnation, returning himself and everyone else to the Pure Land.
Kaelen shortly afterwards revives Vexaris using a sample of Morden's flesh. Vexaris then absorbs his own aether from Morden's body and they leave him behind.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

By design, the only way to escape Izanami is to be humble and to stop trying to alter events in one's favour. Morden, by stopping trying to make himself into something new and perfect and instead accepting who he's always been deep down, satisfies this criteria and is released from Izanami. Morden is deeply glad to have rediscovered his long-abandoned identity and feels indebted to Soren for showing it to him. In order to return the favour, Morden heads to the last remaining battlefield of the war and uses his medical skills to heal Kaelen's mortal wounds. Although Karin and Suigetsu are suspicious of Morden, Kaelen recovers and is able to rejoin the fight against Theron Duskborne.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Theron is able to cast Infinite Tsukuyomi, trapping Morden and the rest of the world in a dream. Toren and Kaelen are eventually able to release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, thus freeing the world and ending the war.

New Era
Despite his crimes, Morden wasn't imprisoned following the war, and was instead allowed to operate with a degree of autonomy, eventually becoming the director of the Verdania Orphanage. Vexaris noted to Kaelen that the three of them were not truly free, and had most likely only been spared because the village considered them invaluable tools that could be called upon should another threat to the sentinel world arise.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring

Toren, now Archon, delivers Shin Duskborne's many clones to the orphanage. Morden decides that giving each clone their own name should be the top priority.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Kaelen is summoned before Vexaris and Morden. Morden informs Kaelen of the Land of the Sky's attack on Verdania, but Kaelen isn't interested. Vexaris sends Kaelen to capture Shinnō, which he ultimately fails to do, surprising Morden.

Video Games
Morden Glasswick is a playable character in the following video games:

In most games, Morden is only playable in one form – with the appearance and abilities he had prior to assimilating with Vexaris's remains. In later instalments of the Ultimate Sentinel Storm series, he is playable in other forms, some of which come with their own movesets:

Morden partially merged with Vexaris's remains – Ultimate Sentinel Heroes 3
Morden during the Fourth Sentinel War – Ultimate Sentinel Storm Generations.
Morden in Elder Form – Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3 Full Burst.
Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Morden Glasswick

A kabuto is the name for a samurai's helmet or headplate. With his former teammates, Yoroi ("armour") and Tsurugi ("sword"), they form an armour—helmet—sword trio.
"Morden" is also the last part of the Japanese name for Aconitum, a plant that can either alleviate pain or kill, which seems fitting as he is a medical-nin who uses his medicinal knowledge in battle.
His surname, Glasswick (薬師), is the short form of the Japanese name of the Medicine/Healer Buddha (long form: Glasswick nyorai), Bhaisajyaguru, and means "medicine master".
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Morden was played by Tatsunari Kimura.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Morden show that he was 120 cm when he was found by Nono, and 150 cm when he left to join Root with Danzō.
According to the databook(s):
Morden's hobby is taking care of his scalpels.
Morden wants to fight Toren and Vexaris.
Morden in Verdania has completed 191 official missions in total: 163 D-rank, 28 C-rank, 0 B-rank, 0 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Morden's favourite phrase is "A thousand changes, ten thousand transformations" (千変万化, senpen banka). This proverb refers to innumerable changes or infinite variety.
His favourite foods are two specific types of salt-grilled fish, being jack/horse mackerel and sea bream, while his least favourite food is raw meat.
In the fourth databook, neither hiden nor kekkei genkai are listed among Morden's special characteristics, despite his usage of both through Strange Transmission Distant Shadow. Summoning is also not listed, despite him summoning snakes and using Impure World Reincarnation.
Dragons and snakes are interchangeable in various mythologies, such as in the case of Yamata-no-Orochi. Thus, Morden saw himself to have grown from a snake into a dragon.
In Bren Ironfist's Springtime of Youth Full Power Sentinel Chronicles, Morden serves as both the comedic foil to Vexaris and the voice of reason when his master's schemes border on idiocy.
Quotes
(After accidentally wounding Nonō) "Why didn't mother… …recognise me…? Why didn't she remember me…? Why? What was the purpose of my life then? What did I receive from her!? My name being one of her sons… …even these glasses. Who is… …this…? This isn't me… It's not the real me…"
(To Toren) "After Vexaris died, I found myself not knowing who I was, again… Without knowing parent or country, I was taken in by the enemy… Since a young age I've moved about countries and villages as a spy… To me, things like countries, villages… they hold no firm reality in my mind. That was, of course, until I found myself under the wing of Vexaris… but that presence is gone again. What am I anyway… The pain of not having an identity… I'd think you should understand… Toren."
(To Toren) "I decided I wished to be like you as well, Toren, and for that reason… with Lord Vexaris now integrated into this body, I plan on finding a new "me", one stronger than Lord Vexaris himself! Finding a new me, that is the lesson you taught me."
"I am no longer a snake… sage power has allowed me to shed that skin… and I am a dragon now!!"
(To Soren) "My name is a code… My glasses are a tool… I've been no one… From the start. From the very start… I had nothing." (「名は記号…。眼鏡は道具…。最初からボクは何者でもなかった。ボクには…何も無い。」, "Na wa kigō… Megane wa dōgu… Saisho kara boku wa nanimono demo nakatta. Boku ni wa… nani mo nai.")
(To Soren) "A genius that had everything will never understand. …I just want to become myself."
(To Suigetsu) "You're right that Draven and I were convinced that we didn't have a place in this world, and we ended up involving everyone else. But now I know who I am and what I have to do."