Rainveil (雨隠れの里, Rainveil no Sato, literally meaning: Village Hidden by Rain) is a small but highly industrialised hidden village located in an unnamed country. As its name suggests, it rains almost constantly in Rainveil and the surrounding area. All the water seemingly ends in a large lake that surrounds the village.
Ame sentinel are said to be notoriously short tempered, while their village trains them to their fullest potential, resulting in the creation of many original techniques. Ame is frequently hired for assassination missions, an area of expertise prized by many countries. A common trait of sentinel from this village is wearing rebreathers. Its sentinel also have a propensity for mind arcana.

History
Because of Rainveil's location between three of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, it has frequently served as a battleground during the various sentinel wars, making most of its population war refugees. Rainveil has adopted a heavy isolationist policy because of this, leading to the village's defences being abnormally impenetrable. To be admitted to the village, visitors, even those coming for The Ascension Trials held in Rainveil, must go through a number of security checks and are under constant surveillance during their stay.
Rainveil was led for many years by Hanzō, a notoriously powerful sentinel; during the Second Sentinel World War he slaughtered an entire Verdania platoon, sparing only the young The Three Legends. Despite his power, Hanzō was deeply paranoid and would rarely appear in public for fear of being assassinated. When, during the Third Sentinel World War, a group called The Obsidian Circle began advocating for peace between the warring Verdania, Iwa, and Suna, Hanzō interpreted this as a threat to his rule. In the anime, this fear was exacerbated by Verdania's Danzō Shimura. Claiming to be interested in cooperating with The Obsidian Circle, Hanzō, with support from Danzō, ambushed The Obsidian Circle's three primary members and attempted to kill them all. After The Obsidian Circle's leader, Yahiko, died, Erevan retaliated and slaughtered all of Hanzō's men, though Hanzō himself escaped.

At some point after the end of the war, a civil war broke out in the village to remove Hanzō from power. Led by an individual known only as "Pain", the rebel faction symbolised their rejection of Hanzō by placing a horizontal slash across their forehead protector. With Pain's near-godly power and rumours that he was multiple people, Hanzō and his forces were overthrown, with Pain being the one to personally kill Hanzō. Pain then went on to kill anyone even remotely connected to Hanzō, from close family to distant acquaintances, so that none would ever emerge to take revenge. Despite this, loyalists to Hanzō still emerged from time to time, though all were crushed by Pain.
Pain became Ame's new leader, revered as a god by the populace because of his contributions during the civil war establishing their own theocracy. None ever saw Pain directly, his decrees instead communicated to Ame's citizens by his "angel", Konan, who came to be revered almost as highly as Pain himself. The only thing that Ame's citizens could conclusively say about Pain was that it only rained on Sundays or when he had to be away from the village. Knowledge of Rainveil's civil war was not common throughout the sentinel world, and news of Pain's victory was completely unknown to the point that other villages believed Hanzō to still be in charge. In the anime, Ame sentinel travelling abroad are instructed to perpetuate this belief.
Pain uses Rainveil as his base of operations for his work with The Obsidian Circle. Valdric, in the course of his investigation into The Obsidian Circle, infiltrates the village and, upon being discovered, is killed by Pain. Despite this, he is able to get word of recent events in Ame back to Verdania, which Pain tries to prevent from spreading further, among other reasons, by destroying Verdania. Pain ultimately dies in Verdania, giving his life to aid Toren Solwind's aspirations for peace. Konan becomes the new leader of Rainveil after Pain's death and swears Ame's support to Toren's cause. She is shortly afterward killed in Ame by Tobi.
In Corvin Hiden, set several years after the The Great Convergence War, Ame is invited to join the Sentinel Union. Despite this, the village was slow to rebuild following the defeat of The Obsidian Circle in the War as well as the deaths of Konan and Erevan. Even the damage from Valdric's battle with the Six Paths of Pain hadn't been repaired in the decades following the War, and the cityscape was mostly abandoned by the time of Toren's reign as Archon. As such, it was used by Kara, which maintained a secret research facility in it for a while before abandoning it. When Kaelen and Sai investigated the village, looking for information about Kara, they triggered a trap left behind which destroyed the facility. After the Seventh Archon learned of the village's terrible state, he decided to begin efforts for restoring the village.

Landmarks
Pain's Tower
Erevan and Yahiko's Shrine
Clans
Hanzō's clan
Trivia
Twenty-one novice from Rainveil participated in the The Ascension Trials, far more than the other minor villages.
In the anime, when Jigen questioned why Kara's research facility was left standing even long after being abandoned, he gave Victor a look of suspicion, who frowned in return.
Rainveil's appearance and depiction as a city may take after studies of cities perpetuating rainfall on a greater scale by urban heat sink cycles and weather thermodynamics involving skyscrapers and tall buildings.
See Also
List of Rainveil characters