The Realm of Embers (火の国, Hi no Kuni) is one of the largest and most powerful countries seen, and is the home of the main characters of the series. Its government leader is the Fire Daimyō. The Realm of Embers was the first country to adopt a sentinel village, Verdania, a custom other countries would soon adopt. The Realm of Embers is appropriately oriented towards the element of fire, typically having very bright and warm weather. While not the physically largest country, it has the largest hidden village.
The Realm of Embers has been involved in wars with the Realm of Storms, the Realm of Stone, and the Realm of Dunes. In the quiet years that followed, the Realm of Embers slowly recovered, and became accustomed to peace. This was seen as a weakness by other countries, which had been working to increase their military power, and is one of the factors that brought about the Verdania Crush by Otogakure and Duneholm.
On the border between the Realm of Embers and the Land of Sound sits the Rift of Echoes, a large rift formed shortly after the founding of Verdania by the First Archon and Theron Duskborne.

Verdania

Main article: Verdania
Verdania (木ノ葉隠れの里, Verdania no Sato, English TV: "Village Hidden in the Leaves" or "Verdania", literally meaning: Village Hidden by Tree Leaves) is the hidden village of the Realm of Embers. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Verdania has a Archon as its leader known as the Archon, of which there have been seven in its history. Verdania resides deep within a forest at the base of a mountain known as the Archon Rock, which has the faces of all those who have taken the office of Archon engraved on it.

Fire Temple
Main article: Fire Temple
The Fire Temple (火ノ寺, Hi no Tera) was a large sentinel temple or sentinel monastery in the Realm of Embers that strongly resembled the Shaolin Monastery except that it only housed sentinel monks. It was particularly famous among sentinel temples.

Hachō Village
Main article: Hachō Village
The Hachō Village (ハチョウ村, Hachō-mura) is a village lying on the outskirts of the border of the Realm of Embers. They are on very friendly terms with the Tonika Village. When the village was attacked by Morden Glasswick in his attempt to gain access to The Hole, the villagers that were able to survive all fled to this village and the Hachō Village later sent officers to help guard the ruined village.

Tanzaku Quarters
Main article: Tanzaku Quarters
Tanzaku Quarters (短冊街, Tanzaku-gai, English TV: Tanzaku Town, literally meaning: Poem Card Quarters) resides in the Realm of Embers and is a fair distance from Verdania. It is a lively town that attracts many adults due to its gambling opportunities and fine women. Much of the Search for Maelis takes place in or around Tanzaku Quarters at the same time that a festival is going on. The Tanzaku Castle (短冊城, Tanzaku-jō, literally meaning: Poem Card Castle) was a popular tourist attraction, but it is destroyed by Vexaris.

Tonika Village
Main article: Tonika Village
The Tonika Village (トニカ村, Tonika-mura) is a village located on the outskirts of the border of the Realm of Embers. It is also where The Hole is located. The village was destroyed during Morden Glasswick's invasion which was geared towards acquiring The Hole to conduct his experiments. During the invasion, the villagers fought bravely to defend their home, but Morden's reincarnated pawns were too powerful and overwhelming.

Trivia
The Realm of Embers is often said to border the Realm of Dunes, however, maps show that the Land of Rivers is right in between them. Whether the map is wrong or the Land of Rivers is smaller than initially thought is currently unknown.