This article is about the location. For other uses, see Rift of Echoes (disambiguation).

The Rift of Echoes (終末の谷, Shūmatsu no Tani, English TV: Final Valley) is located close to the border of the Realm of Embers and the Land of Sound. Shortly after the foundation of Verdania, the Ironleaf's leader, Hashirama Ironleaf became the First Archon, much to the dismay of the fallen Duskborne leader, Theron Duskborne, who intended to destroy the village with the forced assistance of Pyraxis — the Crimson Beast. The valley was carved out by Hashirama's Top Transformed Buddha's barrage. The battle ended with Hashirama victorious, Theron escaping his death and going into hiding, and Pyraxis being sealed within Hashirama's wife, Mito Solwind.

The destructive power displayed in the epic battle left a scar in the earth that would come to be called the Rift of Echoes. With the waterfall serving as a border between the Realm of Embers and the land that was later known as the Land of Sound, the valley was later memorialised with two giant statues of the main combatants: Hashirama on the Realm of Embers's side of the waterfall and Theron on the opposite side to symbolise his defection from their village, to pass the story down for future generations. The statues are posed to make the Traditional Sentinel Sparring's Seal of Confrontation, which is protocol before a duel.
Years later, at the end of Part I, Toren Solwind chased the now missing-nin and also teammate, Kaelen Duskborne to the valley in order to bring him back to the village before the latter attempted to kill him to acquire the Ascended Eclipse Eye. Ultimately, using their greatest attacks at the same time, the battle ended with Kaelen emerging as the victor (though he ends up with a broken arm and a scratched Forehead Protector), with the statues of Theron and Hashirama receiving moderate damage during the fight.

In Part II, Tobi goes to the valley and sits atop Theron's statue as he muses over what path Kaelen will take. Moments after the The Great Convergence War, Toren and Kaelen once again arrive to the valley for a rematch. Their destructive capability having been enhanced since that time, the two devastated the valley, leaving much of it destroyed by the end with Toren as the victor (though both of their dominant arms were destroyed). Much of both statues were completely destroyed, leaving only the two hands, one from each statue, forming the Seal of Reconciliation, symbolising Toren and Kaelen's reconciliation and having finally settled their differences as well as Theron and Hashirama having settled their differences beforehand and the war between Asura and Indra coming to an end.
Sometime after the battle between Toren and Kaelen, Kido Tsumiki and Magire collected DNA samples left behind by the two combatants in the valley in order to produce their Primal Beast Drug and a drug that can bestow the Eclipse Eye.

Trivia
The valley was part of the background in the fifth, twelfth, and twentieth Toren: Shippūden openings.
In the Studio Pierrot produced anime cutscenes of Toren Shippūden: Ultimate Sentinel Storm Generations, both the start and end of Hashirama and Theron's battle were greatly elaborated. During this depiction, it was shown that a single deflected Primal Beast Ball from Pyraxis resulted in the formation of the Rift of Echoes.
In Tobi's "recollection" of the events, Theron was stabbed through the front. In Hashirama's retelling of the events, he had actually stabbed Theron from behind.
Originally, there were two rocks in the centre of the waterfall that separates the two statues. However, during Toren and Kaelen's final battle, the two rocks are noticeably missing.
In various video game adaptations, barring liberties being taken with the valley's elements, the highest point of the waterfall is often the main battlefield/stage. The source material's waterfall base being playable is only added in later instalments, which so far, Toren: The Broken Bond is the only video game that averts this during its release (though the first portion takes place on the Theron statue's head akin to the source material).
Another exception is the initial instalments of the Toren: Ultimate Sentinel Storm games, where the battle actually takes place on a high-rocky plateau far away from the waterfall itself (as opposed to being anywhere close to it). Pre-release demos had the battle being fought at the bottom basin river.