This article is about the character. For other uses, see Riven Ashveil (disambiguation).

Riven Ashveil (はたけカカシ, Ashveil Riven) is a sentinel of Verdania's Ashveil clan. Famed as Riven of the Eclipse Eye (写輪眼のカカシ, Eclipse Eye no Riven) and the Copy Sentinel (コピー忍者, Kopī Sentinel), he is one of Verdania's most talented sentinel, regularly looked to for advice and leadership despite his personal dislike of responsibility. To his students on Team 7, Riven emphasises the importance of teamwork; he himself received this lesson, along with the Eclipse Eye, from his childhood friend, Draven Duskborne. After the The Great Convergence War, Riven becomes Verdania's Sixth Archon (六代目火影, Rokudaime Archon, literally meaning: Sixth Fire Shadow).

Background
Early life

Because his mother died when he was very young, Riven was raised during his early years by his father, Sakumo. Sakumo was famed throughout the sentinel world, having saved Verdania on at least one occasion; Riven in particular revered his father. 

In the Academy, Riven earned top grades, earning him recognition as a prodigy and the best of his generation. Ultimately, he became very popular amongst his peers. With his talents soon being recognised, at age 5, Riven graduated from the Academy at the top of his class in a single year. When his classmates, Rin Nohara and Draven Duskborne graduated three years later, they were teamed together, with Riven, under the leadership of Auren Solwind. In the anime, Auren gave the team a bell test at its formation, assigning the three to take the two bells he kept on his person. Auren often held back less against the prodigious Riven than with Rin and Draven so they couldn't obtain the bells without teamwork. While realising this, Riven unfortunately only used Draven and Rin as a means to an end to obtain the bells. Nonetheless, Auren passed them because they accomplished the goal of the test by working as a team. Auren did encourage them to improve their teamwork afterwards, a message that Draven and Rin took to heart, but fell upon deaf ears with Riven. Team Auren would go on many missions during its career, but Riven's devotion to the rules often made him difficult to work with; Draven, already jealous of Riven's natural talent and popularity, was frequently at odds with him about this behaviour. At age 6, Verdania officials allowed Riven to compete in the The Ascension Trials with his team, which he passed by defeating Garron Steelhart and became a adept.
During one of Sakumo's missions - after Riven was promoted to adept - Sakumo made the decision to save the lives of his teammates rather than complete the assignment. The mission's failure had disastrous consequences for the Realm of Embers, causing many in Verdania, including the teammates he saved, to vilify him for abandoning his duties. Disgraced, Sakumo committed suicide. Seeing what his father went through and determined not to make the same mistakes, Riven decided that following the Sentinel Rules must always take priority.

Third Sentinel World War
Verdania eventually became embroiled in the Third Sentinel World War. As part of the war effort, Team Auren was assigned to destroy the Kannabi Bridge in Kusagakure in order to cut off Ironpeak's supply line. Auren was needed on the front lines at the time, leaving Riven, recently promoted to master at age 12, in charge. Before embarking on the mission, Auren and Rin gave him presents to celebrate his promotion; Draven forgot to get him anything. Shortly after entering Kusa, they encountered an Iwa-scout, Mahiru. Riven tried to eliminate him with his new arcana, Thunderpiercer, but the attack speed left him vulnerable to counter-attack, forcing Auren to step in, save Riven, and kill Mahiru himself. Before leaving them, Auren advised Riven to not use the Thunderpiercer again.

Riven, Rin, and Draven continued further in to Kusa. They were eventually found by Mahiru's teammates, Kakkō and Taiseki, who kidnapped Rin in order to find out what their mission was. Draven immediately suggested that they rescue her, but Riven elected to abandon Rin, believing it was more important to finish the mission before concerning themselves with her safety. Draven refused to go along with this and went off to save Rin by himself. Before he left, he told Riven that Sakumo had been a hero and that, although it was bad to abandon one's mission, it was worse to abandon one's teammates. Riven began carrying out the mission alone, but ultimately decided that Draven was right and went to join him. He arrived in time to save Draven from Taiseki with his White Light Aether Sabre, which he inherited from his father.
Taiseki turned invisible and tried launching a sneak attack on Draven. Riven protected him, but his left eye was badly damaged in the process. In that moment, Draven awakened his Eclipse Eye and used it to kill Taiseki. They then entered the cave where Rin was being held, drove off Kakkō, and released Rin from the mind arcana he placed her under. Kakkō retaliated by forcing a cave-in and Riven, due to his damaged eye, was struck in his blind spot and had difficulty avoiding the falling rocks. Before he could be crushed by a large boulder, Draven pushed him out of the way, becoming trapped instead. Unable to get free and knowing his injuries were too serious to survive, Draven decided to make his last act giving Riven the present he forgot to give him earlier: his Eclipse Eye to replace the eye Riven lost.
After Rin transplanted Draven's Eclipse Eye into him, Riven confronted Kakkō. His White Light Aether Sabre was destroyed during the ensuing fight, but he succeeded in killing Kakkō with Thunderpiercer; due to the Eclipse Eye's heightened vision, Riven was finally able to handle its speed. He went back to where Draven and Rin were, but Iwa reinforcements soon arrived and started constricting the rubble. Draven asked Riven to take Rin away and keep her safe, which Riven did, leaving Draven behind. As the Iwa-nin started surrounding them, Riven attacked them for as long as he could, holding them off until Auren eventually tracked them down and finished off the rest. Auren assisted them with destroying the Kannabi Bridge and then returned with them to Verdania to mourn Draven's death. Despite many from the Duskborne clan being against Riven wielding a Eclipse Eye as he had no blood-ties to them, Fugaku Duskborne, the Duskborne head, chose to honour Draven's dying actions and let Riven keep his gift.

During a later mission, Rin was kidnapped by Misthollow. Riven was eventually able to rescue her and started taking her back to Verdania. Along the way, Rin revealed that Kiri had sealed the Three-Tails into her body with the intention to, once she inevitably lost control of it, have it unleashed on Verdania and destroy the village from within. In order to prevent this from happening, Rin begged Riven to kill her, but he refused, unwilling to break his promise to Draven to protect her and hoping to find some other solution. When Kiri-nin caught up with them and made false efforts to retrieve her, Riven fought them off with his renamed Thunderpiercer, the Lightning Cutter. During one of these attacks, Rin jumped in front of Riven's attack, dying by his hand so that Verdania would be safe. The trauma of this caused his Eclipse Eye to evolve into a Ascended Eclipse Eye shortly before Riven passed out. He was later found by Verdania reinforcements, but none could explain the slaughter of all the Kiri forces, not knowing of Tobi's actions.

Anbu Career

Because he'd lost two teammates in such a short timespan, his role in Rin's death, and his failure to honour Draven's last request by protecting her, Riven dropped into a depression. In the anime, many believed he purposely killed Rin to prevent her from leaking information, earning him the nickname "Friend-Killer Riven". Many, especially those in Anbu believed he would kill a comrade without hesitation if it was for the sake of completing the mission. He would also spend his days avoiding friends and former classmates and at night he would be haunted by dreams of himself killing Rin again. Auren, now the new Archon, tried to help Riven emerge from the darkness he'd fallen into after Draven and Rin's deaths by assigning him to the Anbu in order to have him close in an attempt to alleviate his pain. Riven did well in the Anbu, eventually becoming a captain and the leader of Team Ro. However, his successes were owed to his cold behaviour and his ruthlessness in combat, signs that he was still upset by Rin's death. Auren therefore tried a different tactic: assigning Riven to protect Auren's wife, Kushina Solwind, during her pregnancy. Riven carried out his duties faithfully, monitoring Kushina from the shadows whenever she left her home. During his time off, he would visit Rin's grave and Draven's engraving to tell them his regrets and how life was going without them.

During the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, Riven and many of Verdania's other young sentinel were prevented from helping defend the village, instead being confined within a barrier to keep them safe. Auren eventually saved the village from the Crimson Beast, but at the cost of his and Kushina's lives. After which, Danzō Shimura approached a grieving young Riven, noting that it was Hiruzen Embercrown's orders for the children, even high-ranking sentinel like Riven, to not help battle the Crimson Beast, ultimately preventing Riven from possibly saving Auren and Kushina. Convincing an emotional Riven that the Third was not best for the future of the village, Riven agreed to join Danzō's Root division and spy on the Archon for him. During a mission, Riven encountered another Root member codenamed "Kinoe" who was able to use Wood Release. Knowing that Wood Release was unique to the First Archon, Riven broke in to the Archon Residence to see what he could learn about this anomaly. The Third caught him, but freely gave him the information he wanted: Verdania had tried to recreate the Wood Release powers in the past, but abandoned the project for killing too many test subjects. The Third then mused that the Crimson Beast might have been defeated and Auren saved had the research been successful.

From this meeting with the Third, it became clear to Riven that the Third was not the ineffectual, passionless leader Danzō had made him out to be. Moreover, Danzō had not used Kinoe to try and stop the Crimson Beast' attack. Realising he had picked the wrong side, Riven told the Third about Danzō's plans to assassinate him and, the following day, personally lured out the assassins, of whom Kinoe was one. Riven easily defeated him, but chose to spare his life in the belief that he would become a valuable ally in the future. Riven attempted to resign from the Anbu afterwards for working against the Archon, but the Third insisted his service was invaluable and made Riven his right-hand man.

From investigating a series of disappearances, Riven provided a lead and it was discovered that Vexaris was behind the Wood Release research that produced Kinoe. In the anime, Riven attacked Vexaris when the Third Archon failed to apprehend him, but he was paralysed by Vexaris's killing intent and Vexaris escaped. Riven followed him once he regained his composure, but was captured by the Iburi clan, who were loyal to Vexaris. Kinoe, their ally, convinced them to let him interrogate Riven. Once alone, Kinoe confided that Danzō was making his own plans against Vexaris and, with help from Yukimi, helped Riven get free. Riven later planned to use Yukimi to capture Vexaris, since she was of great importance to him. Later, Riven explained that Yukimi's blood could temporarily bestow Vexaris with the Iburi clan's smoke transformation, allowing him to slip across the border. Overhearing that, Yukimi slipped away and returned to the cave. Vexaris ultimately killed most of the Iburi clan before escaping yet again, but Riven, recognising that Kinoe's relationship with Yukimi is much like his relationship with Rin was, helped keep her safe. Riven decided to leave and not report anything about the Iburi or Root's involvement.

Riven continued to investigate Vexaris over the following years, eventually locating one of his secret labs three years after the latter's defection. While there, he was attacked by Kinoe, who Danzō had sent to take his Eclipse Eye. Riven tried to reason with him by stating that friendship should take higher priority than the mission. When Kinoe accused Riven of violating that creed by killing Rin, enraged by that comment, Riven overpowered him and decided to bring him before the Third Archon. Before they could leave, one of Vexaris's snake experiments escaped its test tube and attacked the duo. As Kinoe was taken captive, Riven managed to slay the creature. While saving Kinoe, the creature's corpse began emitting a poisonous vapour which quickly infected Riven. Kinoe got Riven out safely and, having accepted Riven's words, gave Riven an antidote and chose to abandon his mission whilst leaving Riven a message about it. When Riven woke up, he knew Danzō would punish Kinoe for insubordination and asked the Third for help. With the Third's permission, Riven forced his way into Root headquarters and stopped Danzō from applying a cursed seal to Kinoe. As Root forces started to surround them, the Third showed up to personally authorise Riven's actions, and further negotiated Kinoe's release from Root. Riven added Kinoe, now with the new codename "Tenzō", to Team Ro.

Two years later, Soren Duskborne was added to Team Ro. Riven and Soren were at one point assigned to observe a meeting between Verdania and the Land of Woods. When the Land of Woods' Prajñā Group tried to betray the Verdania forces, Riven and Soren moved in and defeated them. Although Riven was impressed by Soren's abilities, he warned him against his merciless approach and encouraged him on the importance of friends. Sometime later, Soren asked Riven if dead friends' requests should be honoured, which Riven said they should. Soren was eventually promoted out of Team Ro and replaced by Yūgao Uzuki. Shortly afterwards, Team Ro was sent to the Duskborne clan's compound with orders to pacify a brewing rebellion, only to find the entire clan dead. When news emerged that Soren was responsible and that he had killed his best friend, Shisui Duskborne, in pursuit of power, Riven lamented his failure to have had a better influence on Soren.

Because of what happened with Soren, the Third Archon felt that individuals with kind hearts did not belong in the Anbu. He therefore thanked Riven for his years of service and relieved him of his duty, returning him to the standard forces. Over the years, he was placed in charge of several teams of Academy graduates, but none ever demonstrated the teamwork he considered to be so important. In the anime, he started worrying that his own methods were too harsh, but from seeing how his former underlings that he previously failed prospered due to his teachings, his faith was reaffirmed.

Personality

Riven has been very independent, perceptive, and self-confident since early childhood, and tends to broach difficult conversations with blunt pragmatism. He carries himself with a relaxed, almost bored disposition and is known for being solitary and aloof, with an occasional tendency to ignore his peers. These qualities lead some to perceive him as arrogant or condescending; however, Riven is truthfully quite modest about himself, even in the face of his growing reputation as a sentinel and leader. He is also habitually tardy, showing up at his leisure with excuses that convince nobody, and later leaving for equally poor reasons. Though Riven wants others to believe this is how he always acts, he only does so for matters that aren't of particular importance. In his role as Archon, Riven dutifully worked for the village's progress. He also believes that even in times of peace, no one should become a sentinel without appreciating the importance of it.

Riven's life was shaped by the death of his childhood squadmates. He spends hours of his free time visiting Rin's grave and the Memorial Stone where Draven's name is engraved, telling them about his life, recent events in Verdania, and others they knew. Most of all, he shares his regrets that they cannot be with him and that their deaths were his fault. In the anime, after Rin died, Riven struggled to cope with post-traumatic stress disorder, having nightmares about her death and growing depressed whenever others mentioned her. Over time, Riven comes to accept that her choice to sacrifice herself and his guilt became more about his broken promise to Draven to keep her safe. This causes Draven's apparent death to weigh more heavily on him, compounded by regrets about his behaviour when they last spoke. Riven feels that, had he cared about teamwork and friendship in the same way that Draven did, Draven's "death" might have been avoided. Thinking it would ease his pain, Auren convinced Riven to join the Anbu. During his time in the Anbu however, Riven gained a reputation for his cold-bloodedness. Kurenai Yūhi noted that Riven suffered with suicidal thoughts during his Anbu career, with his reckless fighting style and lack of self-care being deemed as Riven being in a hurry to die.
After his father's death, Riven initially became stern and cold toward others, chastising any who disobeyed orders and being willing to abandon his comrades to finish missions. However, Draven's apparent death profoundly changed him; he became committed to teamwork and always places teammates' well-being above the mission's. He believes goals can be accomplished more effectively together, asking for help when he needs it, providing help when it is requested of him, and praising allies when they deserve it. An abuse of one's teammates is the only thing that can make Riven cast aside his normally stoic demeanour, causing him to attack without mercy or his usual sense of sportsmanship. He expects his prospective students to demonstrate this same devotion to teamwork, which none until Team 7 were able to do; despite the high failure rate, the Third Archon agrees with Riven's choice to require it. Riven becomes fond of all Team 7's members, even Kaelen Duskborne, to the point of blaming himself for Kaelen's criminal acts and his team's growing rift over it throughout Part II. He holds out hope that Kaelen will correct his behaviour, and for his patience he is able to see Team 7 reunified when by the end of the The Great Convergence War.

Garron Steelhart has considered Riven his rival ever since they first met in the Academy. Despite his father's warning that Garron might someday prove stronger than him, Riven didn't think much of Garron at the time. Garron took this as a challenge and began striving to earn Riven's approval so as to show that his perseverance could be just as good as Riven's natural genius. When Garron would suggest contests to test how their abilities compared, Riven would respond with indifference, only fuelling Garron's desire to defeat his "cool, hip, and trendy" personality. At the start of Part I, Riven's score is 50 wins and 49 losses, though even when Garron takes the lead the score difference remains the same; considering that their competitions range from eating contests to Rock, Paper, Scissors, the score isn't truly representative of anything. Riven eventually comes to consider Garron one of his closest and most reliable friends, and by the end of the The Great Convergence War, he acknowledges that Garron has surpassed him.

When he first meets his students on Team 7, Riven claims to have many hobbies, none of which he chooses to share at the time. He is an avid fan of the Icha Icha series of novels; he always has one of the books with him and regularly reads it, even while talking to others. Toren Solwind identifies Icha Icha as one of Riven's few weaknesses, which he is able to take advantage of during a bell test by threatening to spoil the ending of the newest book in the series, forcing Riven to shut his eyes and ears and thereby leave himself vulnerable. Although most people he knows are aware of how much he likes Icha Icha, Riven is seemingly uncomfortable sharing the books with others, embarrassed by the presumably adult content.
Following his retirement from active duty, Riven has become much more laid-back and unbothered by events and people surrounding him. His speech mannerisms and tone also resemble those of an old man. Although steadfast during any and all important events, Riven actively avoids taking on responsibilities during his free time, such as when he attempted to evade Boruto's pleas for training. Furthermore, Riven also enjoys having others perform the most basic of chores on his behalf, such as roping Boruto into helping him with shopping duties, and initially refusing to help with Sabure and Yubeshi's issues with their respective grandparents until being promised a rare first edition of an Icha Icha volume, with an extended ending.

Appearance

Riven has a strong resemblance to his father, so much so that they are sometimes mistaken for each other. He has spiky silver hair often oriented to his left-side, dark grey eyes (black in several instances), and typically a relaxed and lazy expression. During the Third Sentinel World War, his left eye was damaged, leaving a vertical scar from the injury. The eye was shortly afterwards replaced with a Eclipse Eye, which he covers with his forehead protector when he isn't using it. After his original eye was restored by Toren during the The Great Convergence War, Riven returned to wearing his forehead protector balanced above his forehead. Since early childhood and near-constantly, he wears a mask that prevents most of his face from being visible. Even his ninken have seen his face so sparingly that most of them don't remember what he looks like unmasked. On the few occasions he exposes his full face, he has a narrow jaw-line and a beauty mark under the left corner of his mouth. Overall, he is considered very handsome as seen from Teuchi and Ayame's reaction to seeing his face.

Riven wears Verdania's standard infantry clothing for most of Part I and Part II: a flak jacket, dark blue pants, and a long-sleeve shirt. He also wears fingerless gloves with metal plates on the backhand and is seen with a chain necklace underneath. His appearance remains largely the same following the The Great Convergence War, except for a red armband on his left bicep, boots instead of sandals, and Verdania's redesigned flak jacket. The kanji "六火" (Literally meaning Six Fire) is written on the back, denoting his Archon position. For formal occasions, he wears the typical Archon garb: the traditional headpiece and haori, along with a red, full-length kimono, tied using a white sash. Written vertically on the back of the robe, Riven has the kanji for Sixth Archon (六代目火影, Rokudaime Archon, literally meaning: Sixth Fire Shadow). He switched from using a knotted forehead protector to a modern elasticised one.

Riven wore several different outfits prior to Part I. In the academy, he wore a long sleeved anchor-grey shirt with a zipper, a green scarf and slate-coloured shorts. He also wore blue sandals, which he also wore during the Third Sentinel World War. During the Third Sentinel World War, he wore a black T-shirt with white stripes in the middle of the sleeves, additional sleeves over his arms, metal arm protectors, leather straps around his back and chest, and dark pants. Prior to its destruction, his family's White Light Aether Sabre was kept in a small holder in the middle of his back. During his Anbu career, he wore a simple blue suit with a grey flak jacket, strapped up sandals and arm guards that went up to his elbows. While not on duty as an Anbu, he wore a similar outfit with segmented gauntlets and bandages over his calves. His fox mask had red and black markings around the eyes, sides, and mouth. One trait left over from his career as an Anbu is their signature tattoo resembling a red flame on his left deltoid. 

When masquerading as "Sukea", he removes his forehead protector and mask. Instead, he wears a wig of shaggy greyish-brown hair, bright grey-coloured contact lenses, along with purple makeup over his eyes and purple patches under them to conceal his scar. He also normally wears a long green trench coat and purple scarf with grey pants. While playing along into pretending to steal his own sentinel registration photo, Riven briefly wore a black long-sleeved shirt and a light grey flak jacket.

Abilities

Riven is one of the strongest sentinel Verdania ever produced, with his advanced skills earning him the title of a genius (天才, tensei). A prodigy of such innate talent and intellect, he showcased highly advanced skill from a young age and even performed official missions while still in the Academy. From which, he rapidly rose through the sentinel ranks. His prowess is said to rival an entire country, something that earned him recognition on sight by various high-level sentinel. The S-Rank members of The Obsidian Circle acknowledge his might; he outmaneuvered Soren Duskborne (albeit he couldn't use his Ascended Eclipse Eye at the time), fought Kisame Hoshigaki and Kakuzu to a standstill, and was deemed a major threat by Pain. He even fought on par with the adult Draven Duskborne, whose prowess was comparable to Theron Duskborne. 
Riven is very versatile with advanced proficiency in countless areas including mastery of all three main sentinel skills; noted as smarter than Corvin Shadewell, having a better sense of smell than Kiba Fangcrest, more adept with the Eclipse Eye than Kaelen Duskborne, and more skilled in body arcana than Bren Ironfist—even as each of them are well-known for their high capacities in those respective areas. Riven's mind arcana prowess can use basic techniques to major effect for intimidation and distraction. Even when normally relying on a single eye, the reduced depth perception and range of vision has no impact on his performance. Riven's combat and tactical prowess are so revered, that many foresaw his rise to Archon status years before it happened. At the same time, the Sage of Six Paths believed Riven's greatest strength is as a teacher and leader, which proved vital in Kaguya Ōtsutsuki's defeat. Even after losing his Eclipse Eye, Riven's combat prowess continued to increase. Despite being retired, Riven was able to pressure Koji Kashin, one of Kara's strongest Inners and an enhanced clone of Valdric, into retreating. 

Aether and Physical Prowess

Originally, by his own admission, Riven's aether reserves were average. He could only use the Lightning Cutter four times or Kamui three times per day. To compensate, he relied on superb control, requiring no more than the minimum amount to perform his technique, even able to do so with a single hand. However, by Part II, Riven's reserves increased to a considerable size, able to perform both techniques several more times and repeatedly in a single battle with only minor exhaustion. In later years, his reserves increased further, able to create and maintain four collective massive walls for a few days and casually utilise his Purple Electricity numerous times.
Riven's body arcana can take various approaches in close combat. From his time in the Anbu, he can suddenly approach enemies from behind unnoticed, even by other Anbu. Likewise, with attacks from the front, he can strike with blazing speed and debilitating precision to quickly defeat multiple enemies. Riven is able to open at least one of the Eight Gates. He has reflexes sharp enough to block attacks he is unable to see, and has immense speed that allows him to perform hand seals at unreadable rates.

Shadow Arcana

In battle, Riven primarily relies on his great knowledge and skill in shadow arcana. As an academy student, he excelled well-past his peers, being able to use master-level shadow arcana. Over the years, due in large part to his Eclipse Eye, he gained a vast arsenal of shadow arcana; reputed to have copied over a thousand techniques, earning his moniker as "Copy Sentinel Riven" (コピー忍者のカカシ, Kopī Sentinel no Riven). This, combined with years of experience, allows him to handle almost any combat situation in various ways. He is also well-versed in fūinarcana, impressing Vexaris. Many years after the The Great Convergence War, Riven's skill in Medical Shadow Arcana is able to ease physical pain with a mere touch.

Riven also has his own personal pack of ninken, which he raised since they were puppies; in the anime, he had them since before the Third Sentinel World War. Able to summon one or more of them, Riven uses them for various means including fetching, restraining, and tracking. Outside of battle, he often uses them to deliver messages.

Bukiarcana

Riven is highly skilled in a wide variety of weapons such as bows and arrows, kusarigama, chains, and wire strings. Since childhood, Riven was highly proficient in kenarcana, being able to wield his father's signature tantō effectively enough to be mistaken for Sakumo. From his background in the Anbu, Riven's swordsmanship became very adaptable, able to effectively utilise the Kubikiribōchō, a uniquely shaped blade with noticeable size and weight, and he was able to defeat kenarcana experts such as the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist with it. He also has considerable skill in star bladearcana, able to lash out at an opponent with a swift flurry of throwing blade and even effectively throw throwing blade with a well-placed kick. Likewise in close-quarters combat, he can skillfully use weapons in both hands simultaneously and even fend off other skilled melee combatants such as Zabuza and Hidan, armed with their respective unique weapons, using a single throwing blade.

Nature Transformation

Riven can use all five basic nature transformations, as well as the Yin Release and Yang Release. He can use Water Release without a nearby water source, and use it to produce massive offensive or defensive structures. With Earth Release, he can move underground for sneak attacks or produce multiple intricate walls to defend himself or large areas from attack. Years after the The Great Convergence War, Riven learned to convert his Earth Release techniques into quartz Improving the quality of his techniques in this way negates its weakness to lightning-based nature attacks by absorbing and dissipating opposing techniques. He is shown using Fire Release to launch a massive fireball.

Riven's natural affinity is Lightning Release, which he can channel to enhance his physical tools offensive might to pierce and pass through large rocks.. After failing to infuse the Spiralstrike with his lightning nature, he instead used its basic principles to create his signature technique, Thunderpiercer. With it, he collects lightning aether with one or both hands simultaneously, which can pierce most targets that it is thrust into. Riven later refined Thunderpiercer to once famously split a bolt of lightning with, earning the name "Lightning Cutter". He can use it to counter other lightning attacks. Other lightning-based techniques of Riven’s include creating hounds to attack with, clones that paralyse opponents on contact, and cords that can even cut through the highly dense Primal Beast Aether Arms. By his tenure as the Sixth Archon, to make up for his inability to no longer safely use the Lightning Cutter without the Eclipse Eye, as it countered the tunnel vision caused when using the technique, Riven had created a new signature technique; the Lightning Release: Purple Electricity which allows him to release a surge of purple lightning to produce a variety of effects: attack from afar, augment his physical strikes, and release a burst from all around him.

Dōarcana
Eclipse Eye

Riven received his Eclipse Eye during the Third Sentinel World War from Draven Duskborne, a replacement for the left eye he'd lost shortly beforehand. The Eclipse Eye became his most identifying feature in the years since, widely known as "Riven of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼のカカシ, Eclipse Eye no Riven). With this dōarcana, Riven can accurately reproduce any movement he sees (his own physical skill permitting), take in a heightened amount of visual information, and perform the Eclipse Eye's broad category of mind arcana. Because he isn't an Duskborne, he can't deactivate the Eclipse Eye and it rapidly drains his aether whenever he uses it, leaving him bedridden after extended use. As such, he always keeps the eye covered until he needs it. Despite his handicap, he is still noted to have impressive prowess wielding it, as noted by both Soren and Draven Duskborne. Riven lost his Eclipse Eye during the The Great Convergence War. When Draven died with both his Eclipse Eye, his spirit briefly returned from the afterlife and inhabited Riven's body. During which, Draven channelled both his eyes' dōarcana power into Riven, granting full usage of their abilities with no strains or setbacks. 

Ascended Eclipse Eye

Riven gained a Ascended Eclipse Eye when Rin Nohara killed herself on Riven's Lightning Cutter, which he could use after long hours of study and training. Its design is three triangles wrapping themselves around the pupil, similar to a pinwheel. He was able to maintain it for over a decade, though he was steadily suffering its side-effects with each usage, such as bleeding eyes and deteriorating vision. With his left Mangekyō, Riven can use the long-range variant of Kamui: remotely forming a barrier around whatever he looks at to warp the target to Kamui's dimension; eventually, he learns how to send himself to the dimension and to a new location from it. While he initially had trouble aiming Kamui properly, he improved to the point where he could accurately use Kamui on fast-moving projectiles. Originally, the technique required some amount of preparation and was a huge drain on his aether each time it was performed. Later on, Riven refined his execution to the point where he could perform it faster than most could even see, and use Kamui repeatedly with much less aether drain. 

After Riven loses his Eclipse Eye, his body is temporarily inhabited by Draven's spirit, allowing him to use both of Draven's Mangekyō. Due to these eyes possessing Six Paths Aether, this allowed Riven to utilize the Ascended Eclipse Eye and its abilities with much greater power, as well as repeated and extended use with no ill effects to his health, aether, or eyesight. In addition to the long-range Kamui he'd originally had, he could use its short-range variant to overlap his body with Kamui's dimension, effectively making him intangible so that any dangers phase through him. By combining this ability with his Lightning Cutter, Riven could bypass all defences and eliminate the possibility of being countered while attacking. Having manifested a dual Mangekyō, Riven could use Susanoo, which he quickly honed into its "Complete Body" form. It can be used for flight, defending others with its large size, and even have the intangibility of Kamui extended to it. It can manifest either swords or star blade to aid him in battle, the latter of which can produce Kamui Shuriken in order to warp away whatever they cut. Riven lost all these abilities after Draven's spirit returned to the afterlife.

Intelligence
Riven's talent for systematically planning ahead and swiftly changing tactics allows him to adapt to virtually any threat. Part of Riven's usual approach to combat is to rely on the Body Replacement Technique and clone techniques, thereby keeping himself out of harm's way while he observes an opponent and their abilities. Likewise, he remains alert to any unexplained or unexpected occurrences, coming up with theories for their causes when they arise and exploiting them if they prove true, which they usually do. Once he identifies an opponent's weakness, Riven can quickly formulate a plan to take advantage of it. This allows him to instinctively design the proper countermeasure for the situation, using either his own myriad of techniques or relying on his allies' unique skills to that purpose. Such plans, while often elaborate and unorthodox, are typically highly successful and very low-risk, making Riven invaluable as a leader. He has also proven himself a very talented teacher, able to push his students' development by months, if not years, in just a matter of weeks through various innovative methods.

Stats

Part I
Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves

Riven is assigned as the leader of Team 7, comprised of Toren Solwind, Kaelen Duskborne, and Lyra Bloomhart. The Third Archon explains that he is selected for the team in order to keep an eye on Toren, the Crimson Beast' beast-bearer and, in the anime, to help Kaelen cope with life after the The Duskborne Purge. During his first meeting with Team 7, Riven is unimpressed by them, finding them all to be too self-interested. He nevertheless gives them a bell test as he has for all the previous teams he's been assigned to and tells them to take one of the two bells on his person. Toren launches a first attack before the test officially begins; Riven stops him easily, but is nevertheless amused.
Riven reads Icha Icha Paradise during the test, convinced he won't need his full attention or both of his hands. Toren and his shadow clones fail to take a bell and Lyra, who focuses on looking for Kaelen, is defeated by one of Riven's mind arcana. Riven then goes to find Kaelen, expecting the same outcome as Toren and Lyra, but finds Kaelen was waiting for him. Riven is forced to go on the defensive and, when Kaelen uses the Great Fireball Technique, he must close his copy of Icha Icha, but he still manages to defeat Kaelen. Riven gathers them together afterwards and tells them they've failed, explaining that, had they worked together rather than individually, they might have succeeded in acquiring a bell. They convince him to give them another chance after lunch, but Riven demands that Toren not be fed. He secretly watches them as they eat and sees Kaelen and Lyra give Toren food against his instructions, needing Toren in top form if they're to get a bell. Riven pretends to be angry when he approaches them, but tells them that they pass the test for placing the team's well-being above the mission parameters.
Team 7 completes a number of D-rank missions, which Toren believes they are over-qualified for. He complains to the Third Archon about this and is able to secure a C-rank mission: escorting Tazuna to the Land of Waves. Shortly after leaving Verdania, Riven notices they're being pursued by the Demon Brothers. He pretends to be killed by one of the Demon Brothers' attacks so that he can observe them, stepping in to neutralise them once Team 7 can't hold them off anymore. After restraining them, Riven confronts Tazuna on why the Demon Brothers were trying to kill him. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him so that he can't build a bridge that will free the Land of Waves from the tyranny of Gatō. Although this is an A-rank assignment that Team 7, being only novice, are unqualified for, they decide to help Tazuna anyway because Tazuna confessed his country is too poor to afford an A-rank assignment.

When they arrive in the Land of Waves they are met by Zabuza Momochi, a former Kiri-nin. Recognising how formidable Zabuza is, Riven uncovers his Eclipse Eye and engages him, leaving his students in charge of protecting Tazuna. Riven initially does well against Zabuza, defeating Zabuza's water clones with his own. When Zabuza succeeds in trapping him in a Water Prison, Riven instructs Team 7 to leave him behind and escape with Tazuna. Toren ignores him and with help from Kaelen is able to release him. Riven thanks them and resumes his fight with Zabuza, copying his shadow arcana and using them against him. Just as he is about to finish off Zabuza, Zabuza is seemingly killed by a young hunter-nin and his body is taken away. Team 7 continues on to Tazuna's home, but Riven must be carried, having exhausted himself due to overuse of the Eclipse Eye.
While recuperating, Riven starts to find Zabuza's death suspicious and worries he may still be alive. In case this is true, he shows Team 7 the Tree Climbing Practice in order to improve their aether control, which will be useful if Zabuza does indeed return. After a week of rest Riven has recovered and all of Team 7 has mastered the exercise; Toren is tired from the training and is allowed to keep sleeping as they resume their bodyguarding of Tazuna. When they arrive at the bridge Tazuna is working on, they find Zabuza and Haku (the hunter-nin from before) waiting for them. Haku traps Kaelen in his Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals, which Zabuza blocks Riven from helping him escape from. Once Toren arrives to lend Kaelen assistance, Riven engages Zabuza in combat.

Having learned from his previous encounter, Zabuza coats the area in a thick mist so that Riven can't use his Eclipse Eye. Because of this, Riven sticks close to Tazuna, knowing Zabuza will come for him eventually. Zabuza does indeed attack, and Riven is badly injured by Zabuza's Kubikiribōchō while defending Tazuna. While reeling from his wound, Riven senses Toren using the Crimson Beast' aether. Fearing that the seal containing the beast is weakening, Riven decides to finish the battle quickly: he summons his ninken and has them track down his blood which is still on Zabuza's Kubikiribōchō. Once they locate him, they pin him down while Riven attacks with his Lightning Cutter. Just before he hits Zabuza, Haku steps in front of him and takes the attack instead.
As his last act, Haku grabs Riven so he can't get away, allowing Zabuza, freed from the ninken, to try to slice through him in order to get to Riven. Riven pulls away, sets down Haku's body, and, angered by what's happened, proceeds to debilitate both of Zabuza's arms. Gatō then arrives to kill them all, Zabuza included, with a horde of mercenaries. Zabuza kills Gatō first and Riven scares off the horde with his "Multiple Phantom Double Technique" (which is implied to just be the normal Clone Technique). Zabuza, dying from his injuries, asks Riven to place him next to Haku. Riven complies and, after he passes, buries them both. Their mission complete, Team 7 returns to Verdania, travelling by way of the Great Toren Bridge that Tazuna finished building.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials
Team 7 resumes its series of uninteresting missions, but Riven is nevertheless pleased by their development. Despite their only recent graduation from the Academy, he recommends that they enter the The Ascension Trials. He neglects to tell them that they must enter as a team, not wanting any of them, especially Lyra, to feel pressured to participate. He is therefore glad when they all independently decide to take the exams and wishes them luck.

Several days after the exams start, Riven arrives to watch Team 7 in the preliminary fights. There, he is informed that Kaelen was attacked by Vexaris during the exams and branded with a Cursed Seal of Heaven. Riven warns Kaelen that he will be disqualified if he uses the cursed seal during his match. Kaelen avoids doing so and Riven takes him away afterwards, applying the Evil Sealing Method to prevent the cursed seal's use. After Kaelen passes out from the procedure, Vexaris confronts Riven, explaining his plans to acquire Kaelen's Eclipse Eye for himself. Riven readies his Lightning Cutter to defend Kaelen, but Vexaris decides to leave, confident Kaelen will come to him willingly someday; Riven afterwards realises he would have been killed had they fought. Riven takes Kaelen to the hospital to rest, places him under the guard of Anbu, and returns to watch the remaining preliminary matches, having promised Kaelen that he'd tell him all about the other combatants' abilities.

After the preliminaries end, Riven returns to Kaelen to find all the Anbu dead, killed by Morden Glasswick. He tries to capture Morden in order to learn more about Vexaris's plans for Kaelen, but Morden escapes. Riven is afterwards tracked down by Toren, who asks Riven to help him train for the exams' final matches in a month. Having already decided to train Kaelen, Riven refers Toren to Ebisu instead. In order to give Kaelen an alternative to the cursed seal's power, Riven spends a month teaching him the Thunderpiercer. He also helps him improve his physical speed by visualising and mimicking Bren Ironfist's movements. Training runs long and they end up arriving late for Kaelen's match against Zephros of Duneholm. When Toren tries to warn him about Zephros, Riven instructs him to just watch Kaelen's performance, and is amused by how quickly Toren's concern for Kaelen becomes jealousy of his abilities.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

The The Ascension Trials are interrupted by an invasion of Verdania and most of those watching the finals are rendered unconscious by a mind arcana. Riven is among those who dispel it and he starts fending off invading Otogakure forces. When he notices Kaelen going off on his own to fight Zephros, Riven locates Lyra and sends her, Toren, and Corvin Shadewell after him to provide assistance; he summons Pakkun to help them follow Kaelen. The fighting rages on until Riven and his fellow defenders eliminate all invaders in the area except for Morden and Baki, who opt to flee rather than continue fighting. Riven and the others then converge on the site where the Third Archon fought Vexaris, but discover that he's died in battle.
Riven attends the Third's funeral a few days later. He arrives late, having visited the Memorial Stone beforehand to reflect on those he's lost.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

Shortly after the funeral, Riven notices cloaked individuals travelling around Verdania. Suspicious, he follows them, but keeps up appearances that he is only meeting Kaelen for lunch. While waiting for Kaelen, he strikes up a conversation with Asuma Embercrown and Kurenai Yūhi, quietly alerting them to the men in cloaks. When Kaelen arrives and the cloaked men leave, Riven sends Asuma and Kurenai after them. However, Riven starts to become concerned so he cancels lunch with Kaelen - not explaining the real reason - and joins Asuma and Kurenai. He arrives in time to save Asuma and Kurenai from Kisame Hoshigaki and Soren Duskborne, respectively.

Soren advises Kisame to keep his distance from Riven, stating his fight with Riven would take too long. He also states that his own fight with Riven wouldn't take any time at all: he immediately attacks, which Riven only barely blocks with a Water Formation Wall. He then gets Kurenai away from Soren's Clone Great Explosion, and when he looks back at Soren catches a glimpse of his Ascended Eclipse Eye. He orders Asuma and Kurenai to shut their eyes while he is attacked with Tsukuyomi, subjecting him to three days of torture in a matter of seconds. He is able to remain conscious to Kisame's surprise and, using information earlier provided to him by Valdric, guesses their purpose for being in Verdania: they are members of The Obsidian Circle after the Crimson Beast within Toren.
Soren orders Kisame to capture Riven to see what else he knows and to kill Asuma and Kurenai. Kisame is stopped by Garron Steelhart and they retreat, at which point Riven passes out. Garron takes Riven back to his home and puts him to bed, where he remains comatose until Maelis, the new Archon, comes to Verdania and heals the damage to his mind.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Riven is not done recovering when he is given a mission assignment, a consequence of Verdania's lack of manpower following the failed invasion. Before leaving, he stops by the hospital where Kaelen has been staying after his own encounter with Soren and finds Kaelen in the middle of combat with Toren. As Kaelen is about to clash his Thunderpiercer with Toren's Spiralstrike, Riven catches them both and flings them apart. Riven starts questioning Kaelen about his apparent intentions to kill Toren, but Kaelen leaves rather than be lectured. Riven also notices Valdric nearby and, assuming Toren learned the Spiralstrike from him, asks if that was a good idea; Valdric asks the same about teaching Kaelen the Thunderpiercer. Riven asks Valdric to speak with Toren while he speaks with Kaelen. Before he goes, he assures Lyra that he'll set things right.

Riven locates Kaelen and ties him to a tree in order to force him to listen to what he has to say. He starts by trying to discourage Kaelen from avenging the Duskborne clan, insisting that, even if he's successful, it won't bring back those who are already dead. Kaelen retorts that Riven doesn't understand what he's going through and offers to kill the people most precious to Riven, only for Riven to reply that those very people are already dead. Kaelen is surprised and puts up less resistance, so Riven tells him that taking revenge for those that he's lost is not worth also losing those he still has, namely Toren and Lyra. To that end, he encourages Kaelen to start using Thunderpiercer for its intended purpose: protecting friends rather than attacking them. He unties Kaelen and leaves for his mission, intending for what he said to sink in.

When he returns, Maelis informs him that Kaelen has defected to Vexaris and that Toren and a team of novice were sent after him. Upset with himself for not spending more time defusing Kaelen's angst, Riven goes after him, fearful that he and Toren may kill each other. He summons his ninken to help him track Kaelen and Toren, eventually finding the latter unconscious at the Rift of Echoes. Because of the rain, Riven is unable to track down Kaelen's scent and with Toren requiring medical attention, Riven prioritizes on bringing Toren back to Verdania. En route, Riven meets with the Medic Corps and receives updates regarding the status of the other novice dispatched on the mission; Corvin Shadewell and Kiba Fangcrest were injured but overall fine, while Aldric Moonvane and Chōji Boulderkin were in critical condition. Thankfully, the latter two ultimately survive.
With Kaelen gone to Vexaris, Toren decides to start training with Valdric while Lyra trains with Maelis. Having no students to lead anymore, Riven resumes his prior mission schedule.

Mizuki Tracking Mission
Main article: Mizuki Tracking Mission
In the anime, Riven returns from a mission in time to help round up escapees from the Verdania Strict Correctional Facility.

Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission
Main article: Cursed Warrior Extermination Mission
In the anime, Riven is sent to the Land of Birds as backup for Toren, Tenten, and Aldric Moonvane as they investigate the Cursed Warrior. He takes command of the team and eventually defeats Nagare and Hokushin with relative ease.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
In the anime, Riven is sent to spy on the Takumi Village in order to investigate rumours of an uprising. There, he finds the entire village abandoned. He is later part of the reinforcements sent to Duneholm to help deal with the Four Celestial Symbols Men, only to discover that Toren's team already successfully completed the mission.

Interlude
In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

In the anime, about two years after Toren leaves Verdania to train with Valdric, another Adept Exam is held. Riven is sent to Rainveil to invite its sentinel to participate, a mere pretext for him to investigate rumours surrounding the village. He is stopped at the village's entrance, but is able to arrange a meeting with Hanzō (who is actually Konan in disguise) and delivers the invitation. Although he appears to leave Ame afterwards, Riven sneaks back in to see what he can find out. It immediately becomes apparent to him that, although Ame's sentinel don't know the identity of the intruder, they are aware that someone has infiltrated the village. Riven decides to go back to Verdania rather than risk causing an incident.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Riven is the first person to greet Toren when he returns from his two-and-a-half years of training with Valdric. Toren gives him a copy of Icha Icha Tactics as a present, which Riven wastes no time starting to read. As Toren goes off to see Lyra, Valdric warns Riven that The Obsidian Circle will be making a move in the near future. After Toren and Lyra have had a chance to catch-up, Riven reforms Team 7 and gives them another bell test. Unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. Riven also decides to take the test seriously by uncovering his Eclipse Eye and closing his copy of Icha Icha Tactics. As with last time, Toren launches a first attack before the test officially begins, but this time it nearly succeeds. Riven is impressed by this and other signs of their improvement, but by nightfall they still haven't taken a bell. Tired of this, Toren tries spoiling the ending of Icha Icha Tactics, forcing Riven to cover his ears so as not to hear it and shut his eyes so as not to read Toren's lips. This allows Toren and Lyra to each take a bell.

While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Toren won't complain about, word reaches Verdania that The Obsidian Circle has kidnapped Zephros, the Fifth Sand Archon and the beast-bearer of the One-Tail. Team 7 is sent to Duneholm to lend assistance in rescuing Zephros. When they arrive in Suna, Riven is attacked by Chiyo, who mistook him for his father, but her brother Ebizō cleared up the confusion before the attack could connect, to Riven's great relief at the close call. Team 7 gathers what intel they can on Zephros's kidnappers and leave to go after them; Chiyo volunteers to escort them since they aren't familiar with the country around Suna. While en route to an The Obsidian Circle lair, they are confronted by Soren Duskborne. While they fight him, Riven notices something is off about Soren, notably his lack of use of the Ascended Eclipse Eye. The reason for this is discovered after Toren seemingly kills him with a Big Ball Spiralstrike: they were only fighting a doppelgänger.

Team 7 arrives at the The Obsidian Circle lair shortly after Team Garron does, who were sent as backup by Maelis. After Team Garron takes down the barrier over the entrance, Team 7 moves in and finds Zephros's body with his kidnappers: Deidara and Sasori. Deidara takes Zephros's body and flies off, which Toren and Riven go after, leaving Sasori to Lyra and Chiyo. Toren makes repeated failed attempts to rescue Zephros, prompting Riven to encourage patience while he prepares a new ability: a Ascended Eclipse Eye of his own. Once he's ready, Riven uses Kamui on Deidara, but his aim is off and he succeeds only in removing one of Deidara's arms. This creates an opening for Toren to take Zephros back, which Deidara responds to by creating a Suicide Bombing Clone to cover his escape; Riven uses Kamui again to warp the explosion away.
After they regroup with Chiyo and Lyra, Chiyo gives her life to revive Zephros. Teams 7 and Garron attend her funeral in Duneholm before returning home. Riven is unable to walk due to overusing his Ascended Eclipse Eye, forcing Garron Steelhart to carry him; Garron's choice of carrying Riven by piggyback deeply disturbs their students.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

During her fight with Sasori, Lyra learned of an opportunity to possibly meet with Kaelen in a few days' time. Riven must remain in bed while he recovers and therefore cannot go. In his place, Team 7 is led by an Anbu codenamed "Yamato", who Riven once knew as "Tenzō". Before Team 7 sets out, Yamato, Maelis, and Valdric meet with Riven to discuss Toren's deteriorating control of the Crimson Beast' power, explaining that once Toren reached all nine tails, the primal beast would escape his body, resulting in Toren's death.

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission

Although Team 7 was able to meet Kaelen, he was too strong for them to capture and bring back to Verdania. Once Riven's done recuperating he calls them before him and is introduced to Sai, who is effectively Kaelen's replacement on the team; they speak only briefly but both of approve of each other. Riven believes the best way to match Kaelen would be for Toren to create a new arcana. Before he can elaborate further, they are interrupted by the arrival of Asuma Embercrown and the rest of Team 10. When their students leave to have dinner, Asuma lingers behind to discuss something with Riven, only to change his mind when Kurenai Yūhi comes looking for him.

To help Toren create a new arcana, Riven first establishes what his nature is: wind. With that settled, Riven trains Toren in how to learn to use the wind nature. Ordinarily, such training would take months or years, but Toren, by training alongside hundreds of shadow clones, can do the same training in a mere fraction of the time. With Riven's instructions and the training grounds created by Yamato, Toren quickly masters how to use the wind nature. The next step is more difficult for him: combining that nature with the Spiralstrike. Because Riven and Auren Solwind both failed to combine their natures with the Spiralstrike, Riven can't offer Toren any tips and can only watch as he tries to develop something. When they receive news that Asuma died in battle with members of The Obsidian Circle, they take a break to attend Asuma's funeral.

Because he can be of no further assistance to Toren, Riven leaves Yamato in charge of watching over him. Riven, meanwhile, volunteers to help Team 10 avenge Asuma; Corvin Shadewell, having previously come up with a plan, modifies it to take Riven's presence into consideration. Once they locate the The Obsidian Circle members, Hidan and Kakuzu, Riven hides until Kakuzu is driven to use his Earth Spear, at which point Riven pierces him through the heart with his Lightning Cutter. Kakuzu, who has more than one heart, fends Riven off and uses the elemental masks of his Earth Grudge Fear to put Team 10 on the defensive. Needing to separate Hidan and Kakuzu if they're to have any chance of victory, Corvin takes a vial of Kakuzu's blood that Riven secretly collected and leads Hidan away. Corvin is able to trick Hidan into using the blood to curse Kakuzu, destroying a second of his hearts in time to stop him from stealing Riven's.

Angered by the loss of two hearts, Kakuzu prepares to kill Riven and Team 10. His attack is blocked by the combined efforts of Toren and Yamato, who arrive with Lyra and Sai to lend assistance. Riven summons Pakkun to lead Lyra and Sai to Corvin in case he needs help while everyone else prepares to attack Kakuzu. Toren, having finished his arcana, volunteers to face Kakuzu alone. His new Wind Release: Rasenstar blade is temperamental, however, forcing Riven and Yamato to rescue him when it fails on its first use. It succeeds the second time, destroying two of Kakuzu's hearts and putting the last one on the brink of failure. Riven is deeply impressed by the Rasenstar blade and tells Kakuzu that the previous generation being surpassed by the next was perfectly natural. Riven then finished Kazuku off with a Lightning Cutter.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Riven leads Team 8 on a mission to investigate one of Vexaris's recently-discovered bases. During their investigation they are attacked by Guren - one of Vexaris's subordinates - who traps them in her Jade Crystal Labyrinth Technique. Team 7 eventually arrives to lend assistance and helps them escape, but while going after Guren they come across the Three-Tails. Riven requests additional assistance from Verdania and, once it arrives, they attempt to seal the Three-Tails. Guren and her team interrupt them and the Three-Tails gets away, but Guren's team is defeated. They are then recalled to Verdania, with Anbu sent to seal the Three-Tails in their place.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

News reaches Verdania that Kaelen has killed Vexaris. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Kaelen, Riven combines Teams 7 and 8 into an Eight Man Squad with the mission to find either Kaelen or his assumed target, Soren. They split up to look for leads on either Duskborne, with Riven providing one or more of his ninken to those without any particular tracking ability. None find anything until witnessing C0; they converge at its epicentre and can detect Kaelen's trail.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers
As they near Kaelen's location they are intercepted by The Obsidian Circle member Tobi. They make repeated attempts to kill or capture him, but every attack passes through him without sign of damage. Zetsu eventually appears and reports to Tobi that Soren has died in battle with Kaelen. No longer needing to distract the Eight Man Squad, Tobi disappears; before he goes, Riven notices that he has a Eclipse Eye, which deeply troubles him. Riven scouts the area and notices Soren's Amaterasu in the distance. They rush there, hoping to reach Kaelen before Tobi does, but they are too late and cannot rediscover his trail.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed
In the anime, Katsuyu meets them as they return to Verdania to give them a new mission: helping the Tsuchigumo clan protect its forbidden technique. Riven sends Yamato with Team 7 to complete the mission while he returns to the village with Team 8.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault
Back in Verdania, Riven is informed that Valdric has died while investigating the The Obsidian Circle leader, Pain. He is present when this news is shared with Toren, who was too distraught to be of assistance and needed some time alone. Before he died, Valdric sent a number of things to Verdania that would help them against Pain, including an encrypted message. Corvin is able to properly console and get Toren to help him decode it, who realises that the key to its decryption must be Icha Icha Tactics. Riven, having the only copy, is asked to read specific passages aloud, which makes him extremely uncomfortable. Nevertheless, the message is deciphered.

Pain attacks Verdania soon afterwards; while some of the Six Paths of Pain draw attention to themselves, others avoid conflict and try to learn the whereabouts of Toren, who has gone to Toadcrest Summit to train. Riven guesses this tactic and goes searching for one of the latter group. In doing so he finds the Deva Path, and by confronting it he is able to save Iruka Umino. Riven tries to corner the Deva Path so that he can destroy it with his Lightning Cutter, but it repels him with Shinra Tensei. Pain, recognising that Riven is a dangerous opponent, sends the Asura Path to help the Deva Path. Riven struggles against both due to the shared vision of their Void Eye, but their clashing arcana at least attracts reinforcements' attention: Chōza and Chōji Boulderkin cripple the Asura Path when they arrive.

From careful observation of the Deva Path's abilities, Riven notices a brief cool down period between its arcana. To take advantage of this, Riven plants chains under it and has Chōza and Chōji attack it from opposite sides. When they are deflected by Shinra Tensei, they grab the chains and restrain him, giving Riven an opportunity to attack with his Lightning Cutter. Before he can land the blow, the Asura Path uses itself as a shield, giving the Deva Path time to counter. It defeats all of Riven's reinforcements and binds Riven in rubble. Anticipating that Riven will interfere if allowed to live, the Deva Path propels a nail at his head to kill him and leaves. Riven, however, only pretends death, warping away the nail at the last moment with Kamui. When Chōji wakes up, Riven sends him to Maelis to tell her everything they've learned about the Deva Path's abilities. The still-functioning Asura Path fires a missile at Chōji in an attempt to stop him, forcing Riven to use Kamui again to warp away the missile. This depletes his aether reserves and causes his death.

After dying, Riven finds his father, Sakumo, waiting for him. He entreats Riven to tell him about his life, which Riven complies to. He concludes his story by saying that he understands the choices Sakumo made when he was alive and that he is proud to be his son. Just then, a light envelops Riven, a sign of his revival; before Riven returns to the living plane, Sakumo thanks him for putting him at peace at long last, allowing him to continue to the afterlife. Riven wakes up, surprising those nearby. He is informed of what happened while he was dead, such as that Pain destroyed the village and that Toren, upon returning, defeated Pain. As Toren returns to Verdania, Riven goes to meet him and carries him back, where his victory is celebrated by all the villagers.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
In the anime, a travelling musician visits Verdania as it starts rebuilding. Seeing the musician reminds Riven of Team 7's encounter with Hanare of the Jōmae Village.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit
Toren reflects on Kaelen with Riven and Lyra. While he does so, word reaches them that Danzō Shimura has become the new Archon and that Danzō's first decree has been to allow Kaelen's disposal as a missing-nin, something Maelis had never permitted. Toren insists on trying to reason with Danzō, which Riven warns him will not work. When this indeed fails, Toren decides to talk with the Fourth Storm Archon instead, who has made it his goal to personally kill Kaelen. Despite the travel limitations in place due to the approaching Five Archon Summit, Riven and Yamato agree to accompany him. Riven neutralises the Anbu assigned to keep an eye on Toren and Yamato plants his Transmission Wood on Team Samui in order to follow them to the Storm Archon.

When they find the Storm Archon in the Land of Iron, Riven, the only one amongst them that the Storm Archon recognises, asks that Toren be allowed to speak with him. The Storm Archon permits it, but even with his and Yamato's support, he refuses Toren's request to forgive Kaelen's recent work with The Obsidian Circle and leaves them. They stay at an inn nearby while deciding what to do, where Toren is confronted by Tobi. Having expected him, Riven and Yamato attack and restrain him, though he points out that he can escape whenever he wants. Rather than do that, he tells them about Kaelen's motivations: to take vengeance on Verdania for forcing Soren to kill the Duskborne clan. They doubt what he says regarding the The Duskborne Purge, but Tobi is unconcerned, leaving once he's finished saying to Toren what he wanted to. Afterwards, Riven encourages that three of them keep what Tobi said between them until they knew more and if what Tobi said was true. 
Toren decides that the only course of action left is to speak with Kaelen himself. His attempt to locate Kaelen is interrupted by the arrival of Sai and Lyra, the latter of whom tells Toren she loves him. Riven doubts this is the real reason for coming all the way to the Land of Iron, which one of Sai's ink clones confirms after Lyra and her entourage leave: the rest of the Verdania 11 have decided that it's their responsibility, as Kaelen's former friends, to kill him before he sparks a war, a burden Lyra has taken for herself. Before they can go after her, they are met by Zephros and his bodyguards, who tell them about Kaelen's attack on the summit and Tobi's declaration of the The Great Convergence War. Zephros also shares the Five Archon's requests that Riven represent Verdania going forward owing to Danzō's behaviour during the Archon Summit. Toren is overwhelmed by all the developments going on and passes out.

Riven leaves Toren with Yamato and has Sai's ink clone guide him to Lyra so that he can stop her. The clone dissolves along the way, which it explains to be because Lyra knocked out the original Sai. Riven catches up with her in time to stop Kaelen from killing her with Thunderpiercer. Riven tells Lyra that she doesn't need to take responsibility for Kaelen since he, as Kaelen's former teacher, is much more to blame for the team's growing rift and current dire situation. He asks Kaelen once more to let go of his thirst for vengeance, but Kaelen laughs in his face, having been too corrupted by Tobi to be reasoned with any longer. As he prepares for battle, Riven remarks that he finally understands what the Third Archon went through with Vexaris. Kaelen uses his Susanoo to fire an arrow at Riven, which he warps away with Kamui. Kaelen is enraged by this use of an Duskborne's ability and threatens to make Riven suffer. While he does so, Lyra approaches from behind to kill him, but ultimately cannot and Riven, tired from using Kamui, can't reach her in time to save her from Kaelen's retaliation.
Lyra is saved by Toren. Riven tells Toren to take Lyra away. Toren thinks that Riven is going to kill Kaelen. Toren instead restrains Riven and fights Kaelen himself. From the clash of their Thunderpiercer and Spiralstrike, as well as the following conversation, Toren and Kaelen decide to temporarily suspend hostilities until later when they, and only they, will face each other in battle. Riven agrees to these terms, but insists on being allowed to eliminate Tobi with Kamui when he comes to fetch Kaelen; Tobi stops him, telling him it won't work, and leaves with Kaelen.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
When they get back to Verdania, Riven meets with the Verdania Council and tells them all that has happened, including Danzō's death at Kaelen's hand. Because Verdania now needs another Archon, Riven reluctantly agrees to the appointment. He is brought before the Fire daimyō, but before anything can be made official they receive news that Maelis has woken from her coma, therefore rendering the proceedings unnecessary. He meets with Maelis later and thanks her for waking up before he got stuck with any real responsibility.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Riven is part of a force sent to Hachō Village to help the rest of Team 7. Riven confronts Morden Glasswick, who gets away by distracting him with reincarnated sentinel. Later, Riven meets with the village leader, Disonasu, who Riven recognises as also an old partner of Vexaris. He trails Disonasu to a meeting with Morden, who is trying to resurrect the Ama no Hoko. A fight breaks out when Morden notices them, at the conclusion of which Toren defeats the Nine-Tailed Toren Clone. They are afterwards able to deactivate the Ama no Hoko, though Morden himself escapes once again.

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat
In the anime, as Verdania starts preparing for the looming war, Kiba Fangcrest asks Riven to train him. Riven provides his ninken to Kiba in his place, believing they would be more useful to him. Later, Riven receives an apparent distress signal from Garron Steelhart, who is escorting Toren to the Island Turtle. Riven rushes off to lend assistance, only to be told on arrival that the SOS was sent accidentally when Garron was struggling with seasickness. Unneeded, Riven returns to the village.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

Riven is appointed as commander of the Allied Sentinel Forces' Third Division. In the anime, he requests that Garron be his second-in-command. The Third Division is mobilised ahead of the other divisions in order to be on hand for any eventuality. While seeking out an The Obsidian Circle force, they notice and heads towards one of the Surprise Attack Division's distress flares. The Third Division arrives in time to save them from the reincarnated Gari, Pakura, Haku, and Zabuza Momochi. Haku and Zabuza recognise Riven and Lyra (who is also in the Third Division) and ask how Toren is doing. Morden, their summoner, ends their conversation short by suppressing their personalities, so Haku and Zabuza they use their last moments to beg Riven to defeat them.

Zabuza uses the Hiding in Mist Technique to hide his and the others' movements, putting the Third Division on the defensive. Riven is able to analyse their attack strategy and formulate a response, but other reincarnated members of the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist appear on the battlefield before Riven has a chance to put his plan into action. Despite mounting casualties, Riven sticks to his original plan: he sneaks up on Zabuza and attacks with the Lightning Cutter, intending to dispel the heavy mist. Like the last time they fought, Haku shields the attack and Zabuza cuts at Riven through Haku with his Kubikiribōchō. Riven avoids injury and attacks with another Lightning Cutter, this time hitting Zabuza and also connecting Ensui Shadewell's shadow to his. With Zabuza immobilised and Haku damaged, both are bound by the Sealing Team. Riven, upset by how Zabuza and Haku were used for The Obsidian Circle's purposes, takes up the Kubikiribōchō and promises to live up to his reputation as the copier of a thousand arcana.

With the mist gone, the swordsmen seemingly retreat. Riven takes this opportunity to allow his team to rest and recuperate. The next day, in the anime, Riven defeats Jinin Akebino, and later teams up with Garron to keep Jinpachi Munashi and Kushimaru Kuriarare busy until they are also sealed. By the time he helps Sai seal Fuguki Suikazan, only three reincarnated sentinel remain. Part of the White Zetsu Army then arrive to fight the Third Division, but they are met by one of Toren's shadow clones, sent to lend assistance with defeating the remnants of The Obsidian Circle's forces.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Riven and Garron eventually leave the Third Division to join the original Toren and Raxon Thundermane in their fight with Tobi, arriving in time to stop Tobi from capturing Toren. Seeing that Tobi has six reincarnated beast-bearer, Riven theorises that they are each possess one of the Six Paths Techniques, just as the Six Paths of Pain did. From fighting them, however, none use the any of the Six Paths Techniques, leading Riven to believe Tobi doesn't have the energy for it. Tobi can, at least, still use their primal beasts' powers, so he forces the Four-Tails and Six-Tails to enter Primal Beast Modes. Unable to do anything against such large opponents, Riven and Garron leave them to Toren and B.

After Toren is able to free the Four-Tails from Tobi's control, Tobi forces the other beast-bearer to enter Primal Beast Modes as well. As five Primal Beast Balls bear down on them, Riven considers trying to use Kamui. It ends up not being necessary as Toren, by entering his own Primal Beast Mode, deflects their attacks and subsequently frees them from Tobi. Tobi is forced to recall the primal beasts into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, which he uses against Toren, B, Riven, and Garron. Fighting continues into the night, with neither side emerging victorious. When a light descends on the reincarnated beast-bearer, a sign that the Impure World Reincarnation has been cancelled, Tobi takes drastic action and prematurely initiates the Ten-Tails' revival. When they realise what Tobi is doing, Riven and the others focus on destroying the Demonic Statue before it can complete its metamorphosis into the Ten-Tails.

Tobi defends the Demonic Statue from all of their attacks and, as ever, is himself seemingly impervious to damage, with everything passing through him. After an exchange of attacks, of which Riven blocks Tobi's with Kamui, Riven notices some slight damage to Tobi's mask. Having a theory about this, he has Garron and Toren help him test it and is ultimately able to confirm: attacks warped away with Kamui at the same moment that Tobi is impervious will damage Tobi, thereby suggesting a link between their abilities. Riven asks where Tobi acquired his Eclipse Eye, to which he replies it was on the same mission to the Kannabi Bridge that Riven got his own. Riven is troubled by what this might mean, but doesn't overlook the important fact that they now have a way of fighting Tobi. Riven secretly uses Kamui on one of Toren's shadow clones to send it to Kamui's dimension which, when Tobi retreats there to escape the real Toren's attack, attacks Tobi and destroys his mask. When they see his face, Garron and Riven recognise Tobi as Draven Duskborne.

Riven is devastated to discover that the friend whose death he's mourned for over a decade is actually alive. Riven asks Draven why he never returned to Verdania, to which Draven replies that it's because Riven allowed Rin Nohara to die. Draven assures Riven that he doesn't blame him for the world's flaws before attacking him with Fire Release: Blast Wave Wild Dance. Draven is soon joined by a reincarnated Theron Duskborne, who decides to take Toren's Crimson Beast and Raxon Thundermane's Eight-Tails before the Ten-Tails is revived. Riven, meanwhile, tries to question Draven more, who ignores him and instead uses his own Kamui on Riven. Riven figures out how to use Kamui to return, prompting Draven to try to kill him. Toren blocks the attack and vows not to let his teammates die.

Toren's words remind Riven of the Draven he used to know, inspiring him to join the offensive again. After the Crimson Beast replenishes his aether, Riven lets Draven send him to Kamui's dimension, where he attacks Draven's body parts whenever they transport there to avoid Toren's attacks. He then uses Kamui to return, only to witness the Ten-Tails complete its revival. Draven and Theron attach themselves to the Ten-Tails, focusing it destructive power against Riven and the others. Just as they are about to be killed, the combined Allied Sentinel Forces arrive to help, deflecting the Ten-Tails' Primal Beast Ball. Lyra heals Riven and they then join the Allies' coordinated effort to restrain the Ten-Tails, but it breaks free by transforming. Many die in the Ten-Tails' counterattack, but another coordinated assault successfully removes the Ten-Tails from Theron and Draven's control.

Now free to act on its own, the Ten-Tails prepares to use Tenpenchii. Riven attempts to stop it with Kamui, but Draven intercepts him and takes him to Kamui's dimension. When they get there, Riven lunges at Draven with a Lightning Cutter, but stops short of actually killing him with it. When Draven accuses him of having a guilty conscience, Riven tries to explain the circumstances of Rin's death, but Draven is already aware that she chose to die. That fact alone convinces Draven that the world as it is isn't worth protecting. Accepting that Draven's mind can't be changed, Riven attack in order to protect the world that the Draven he used to know cared about. After a prolonged exchange, Riven pierces Draven's heart with a lightning-infused throwing blade. Draven escapes and Riven, similarly badly damaged, collapses.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

As Riven treats his wounds, he catches brief glimpses of what Draven sees due to their common Eclipse Eye: his fight with Toren and Kaelen. Riven ponders Draven's persistence in trying to convince Toren that his actions are justified and concludes that Draven himself is not actually convinced that they are. He returns to the battle just after Draven's defeat, prepared to personally finish him off, but he is stopped by a reincarnated Auren Solwind. Having sensed the same misgivings in Draven that Riven did, Auren convinces Riven to try yet again to speak with him. Riven acknowledges that Rin's death is proof of a flawed system that it may not be possible to fix, but he believes that Toren should at least be given a chance to try since he still has his friends to empower him.

Draven decides to put the same faith in Toren that Riven has and, in order to make up for all that he's done, prepares to use the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone that has died. Because this will cost Draven his life, Riven tries to convince him to find another way to make amends, but Draven replies that he doesn't deserve such an easy solution. As he is performing the technique, however, Draven's body is taken over by Black Zetsu. Riven and Auren are confused by what's happened, so Draven explains that he's been forced to revive Theron instead. Black Zetsu then attempts to take Draven's Void Eye, but the presence of Riven and Auren prevents it from safely doing so. It decides instead to fully take control of Draven's body so that they can't attack it without damaging Draven too.
As they wait, the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path is summoned by Theron from Draven's body; Riven tries to use Kamui on it, but succeeds only in removing its right arm. Draven briefly regains control for long enough to implore Riven to destroy his Void Eye so that Theron can't acquire that too. Just as Riven and Auren psych themselves up to do so, they are met by Zephros and Lyra, who are working to keep Toren alive after Theron removed the Crimson Beast from his body. Zephros asks Auren to seal his half of the Crimson Beast aether into Toren in order to save his life. Black Zetsu intercepts this transfer and takes the Crimson Beast for itself. Theron, now the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, soon arrives to see what's taking Black Zetsu so long. Black Zetsu attempts to go to him, but Draven reasserts control over his body and forces it to stay.

Draven decides that he will help save Toren. He first steals fragments of Theron's aether and then instructs Riven to send Toren and Lyra to Kamui's dimension. He plans to go there to join Toren, but his own Kamui is slow enough for Theron to stop him. Riven, by using Kamui on Draven at the same time that he uses it on himself, is able to accelerate the teleportation and allow him to get away; the attack that misses Draven nearly kills Riven, but he is saved by Garron. Aware of how few options they have, Garron decides to use the Eight Gates Released Formation over Riven's protests. Because Garron's time is limited, Riven, Auren, Zephros, and Bren Ironfist combine efforts to neutralise as many of Theron's Truth-Seeking Balls as they can: Riven, carried by Zephros, warps away part of a defensive wall Theron erects around himself. In the end, Garron badly injures Theron before he collapses, but fails to defeat him.

Theron is stopped from finishing Garron off by Toren's return, who Draven successfully saved. Toren and Kaelen team up against Theron, putting him on the defensive and making him desperate for the Void Eye in Draven's possession. Having no other options, Theron takes Riven's Eclipse Eye and, upon implanting it in himself, uses Kamui to go after Draven; Lyra is teleported back shortly afterwards, Draven's attempt to save her. She prepares to treat Riven's eye, but Toren steps in and uses his Six Paths aether to restore Riven's original eye. As they wait for Theron's inevitable return, Riven reminds them of their first lesson as Team 7: the importance of teamwork. Theron eventually returns, Black Zetsu using his control over Draven's body to teleport them back. Riven watches as his students attack Theron, but they aren't able to stop him from casting the Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
While the world around them falls to the Infinite Tsukuyomi, Kaelen uses his own Void Eye to shield Toren, Lyra, and Riven from its effects. When they emerge, they find Theron has bound the world's population with God: Nativity of a World of Trees and trapped them all within perpetual dreams. Theron confronts them and insists that he has ended all conflicts and that only Team 7, as the only remaining opposition, would seek to renew the cycle of death that plagued the world for centuries. As he's talking, Theron is stabbed from behind by Black Zetsu, who transfers to him from Draven's body to convert him into Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, Black Zetsu's true master.

Kaguya, the origin of aether, now has access to the aether supplies of everyone trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi. She wants Team 7's aether as well, so she transports them to one of Kaguya's Dimensions: a sea of lava. Kaelen saves Toren from falling in the lava; Riven grabs Lyra, ties himself to an unconscious Draven with a scroll, and pins Draven to a wall in order to do the same. The heat causes the scroll to burn up, but Toren sends a shadow clone to catch them. Unable to contribute, Riven only watches as Toren and Kaelen fight Kaguya, Lyra and Draven (once he wakes up) lend support, and Kaguya keeps shifting dimensions in her attempt to defeat them.

Kaguya eventually moves them to a dimension with powerful gravity, limiting Toren and Kaelen's movements while she attacks them with All-Killing Ash Bones. Prepared to give his life to lend what little assistance he can, Riven stands in front of Kaelen to take the attack while Draven does the same for Toren. Although they are unified in their willingness to die, Draven decides it's too soon for Riven and uses Kamui on the attack bound for him, leaving Draven unable to save himself. Draven's body dissolves, but his spirit returns shortly afterwards and inhabits Riven. Draven feels that Riven will become the next Archon and wishes to reward him by letting Riven use his two Ascended Eclipse Eye.

With his Mangekyō, Riven is able to manifest Susanoo. He first uses it to save Lyra from Kaguya and then uses Kamui Shuriken to save Toren and Kaelen. When Kaguya creates an Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball to finally kill them all, Riven, realising that this is their last opportunity, forms a plan of attack: Riven pierces through her with Kamui Lightning Cutter; Toren uses shadow clones to exhaust some of her countermeasures and Riven uses Kamui on the rest; Kaelen moves closer to her in order to place a seal on her; Lyra punches her when she tries to escape. Kaguya is defeated, the primal beasts are removed from her body, and she is trapped alongside Black Zetsu with Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei. The Sage of the Six Paths summons them all back from Kaguya's dimensions and congratulates them for their victory. As his spirit leaves Riven's body, Draven apologises for everything he did when he was alive, but Riven states that he's glad they rekindled their friendship before the end.
The Sage of Six Paths explains how Toren and Kaelen can end the Infinite Tsukuyomi, but Kaelen has one intention before that: killing the primal beasts and the Five Archon. Riven is dismayed, assuming Kaelen is still after revenge. Kaelen replies that he only wants to change the world for the better, making hard decisions like this so that the world won't get embroiled in another war. Too exhausted to do anything himself, Riven stays behind with Lyra while Toren and Kaelen leave to fight; the Sage of Six Paths uses his last moments to talk with Riven, remarking that the centuries of hate may be on the verge of ending due to the love Toren displays for everyone. The following day, Riven and Lyra locate Toren and Kaelen at the Rift of Echoes where the Sage's words have proven true: Toren has convinced Kaelen to give up his intention. Lyra heals their injuries and they proceed to end the Infinite Tsukuyomi and, in turn, the The Great Convergence War.

Upon returning to the village, Riven attends the mass funeral for the casualties of the war. In the wake of the village recovering from the war, Riven succeeds Maelis and becomes the Sixth Archon, although he is dismayed with the amount of paperwork. Soon after in the anime, he offers Toren the chance to become a master, at the cost of him spending two years studying. After Kaelen is released from prison and being pardoned for his past crimes, Riven and Sakure see him off as Kaelen departs to travel the world in a self-proclaimed redemption journey.

Blank Period
In the anime, Riven and Maelis tried to stop the Verdania Military Police Force from exposing the identities of everyone connected to Root in the aftermath of the group disbanding, in order to avoid suspicion among villagers thinking each other were former members. However, many names were still revealed, causing those people to become ostracised.

Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Nearly a year after the war, Riven has yet to officially take on the duties of being Archon, feeling he's unqualified, leaving Maelis to continue managing Verdania's affairs. Riven later leaves for a mission in the Land of Waves. There, Riven oversees security for the Tobishachimaru's maiden voyage. As the ship prepares to take off, Riven spots someone sneaking aboard, discovering it to be Garron Steelhart, who has always wanted to fly. Riven finds somewhere out of the way for them to ride out the trip.
During the voyage, the Tobishachimaru is hijacked by the Ryūha Armament Alliance, who demand that Verdania release their leader, Garyō, from the Blood Prison, vowing to kill the hostages and destroy the Tobishachimaru if their demands aren't met. Riven summons his ninken to seek out the explosives planted around the ship and confronts the hijackers. Kahyō remotely kills two hostages with ice, forcing Riven to surrender to prevent more from being killed. Garron soon appears to fight the leader of the hijackers, Rahyō, keeping him busy so that Riven can free himself from his restraints without being noticed.
Riven is prevented from helping Garron by the appearance of Kahyō. Aware that the Armament Alliance was originally motivated by the death of Kahyō's innocent son, Riven tries to point out that the Armament Alliance's actions now threaten the innocent passengers. Kahyō is upset by Riven's observation and attacks with Ice Release: Earthen Consecutive Chains of Ice, creating a hole in the ship that starts sucking out Riven, Garron, and the passengers. Before he falls from the ship, Riven notices Kahyō's mask has come off, who he recognises as the woman he helped before. Riven, Garron, and the passengers are saved by Sai, who takes the others to safety and Riven back to the Tobishachimaru.
When Riven returns, Rahyō is threatening to allow a sick child to die, believing it is a fair trade for the death of Kahyō's son. Riven attempts to stop him, but is immediately bound by Chains of Ice that Kahyō planted on him earlier. Riven reasons with Kahyō and convinces her to let Sai take the child to a doctor. Riven is afterwards locked away. While breaking out, he concludes that the hijackers plan to turn the passengers into human bombs. Riven confronts Rahyō about this and Kahyō, unaware that this was intended, is aghast. Kahyō attacks Riven and removes his Chains of Ice so he can fight back, but he stops short of killing her when he realises that's what she wants out of regret for her actions.
The damaged Tobishachimaru starts rocking violently, flinging Rahyō from the ship, and then rises into the air uncontrollably, threatening to suffocate everyone aboard. Riven and Kahyō puncture the helium sacs keeping the ship afloat and Kahyō attempts to control its descent with her ice. When she runs out of moisture with which to make ice, Riven leaps from the ship into a storm cloud, using Purple Electricity to produce rain. He is saved by the Third Stone Archon, who delivers him to the ground. Riven watches as the Verdania 11 recapture prisoners escaping during the Armament Alliance's breakout and feels that their generation will someday replace his own. Riven feels that he, as Archon, would like to watch over things until they're ready.
Verdania's sentinel search the crashed Tobishachimaru, treating the passengers and taking Kahyō into custody. Maelis threatens to have her executed since she is the highest ranking conspirator to survive the failed jailbreak, but Riven requests that he be allowed to pass sentence instead, what would be his first act as Archon: Kahyō will stay at the Blood Prison for the rest of her life, acting as warden by using her Chains of Ice on the prisoners. Both Maelis and Kahyō agree to these terms.
With his status as Archon and Toren's testimony, Riven pardons Kaelen and releases him from prison. He and Lyra see Kaelen off as he leaves Verdania to wander the world, with Riven requesting him not to cause too much trouble.

Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Main articles: Corvin Hiden (novel) and Corvin Hiden (anime)
The Sentinel Union that emerged after the end of the The Great Convergence War created an unprecedented peace between the sentinel villages. Two years after the end of the war, that peace is threatened by the emergence of the Land of Silence. Riven sent Sai and a team of Anbu to the Land of Silence to investigate, but all go missing; the last communiqué suggests the Land of Silence's leader, Gengo, may be behind it all. In order to protect the Sentinel Union's interests, Gengo must be assassinated, a task Corvin Shadewell volunteers for. Riven assigns two Anbu, Rō and Soku, to assist Corvin on what is otherwise to be a top secret mission.
Toren becomes concerned when Corvin fails to return from his mission and barges into Riven's office demanding an explanation. Riven attempts to maintain the mission's secrecy, but eventually relents due to Toren's insistence, even allowing Toren and other Verdania personnel to go to the Land of Silence. Corvin is rescued and, when he returns to Verdania, Riven gives him a week off.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

Two years after the The Great Convergence War, Riven holds an emergency Five Archon Summit regarding the Moon's imminent collapse, worried that it will destroy the Earth if not stopped soon. When Hanabi Moonvane is kidnapped by Toneri Ōtsutsuki, Riven forms a platoon consisting of Toren, Lyra, Corvin, Sai, and Elara and assigns them with rescuing Hanabi. He also briefs them on the situation and gives Corvin a special clock to track the countdown to the Moon's collision, having a hunch that it is somehow related to Hanabi's sudden kidnapping.
As Verdania tries to defend itself from several meteors, Riven is shocked to witness Kaelen's sudden arrival to destroy one final meteor that was about to destroy the village. Furthermore, Riven finds an injured Hiashi Moonvane, whom Kaelen had brought to safety. Later, Hiashi summons Riven to his hospital bed, who requests him not to order the Moon's explosion, as he suspects that Hanabi, and by extension her rescuers, are on the Moon, and his concerns grow even stronger once his assistant informs him that Pyraxis was just spotted on the Moon's surface. 

As the battle on the Moon rages on, Riven is called to an immediate conference with the Five Archon, where he, along with Mei, Zephros, and Ōnoki, vote against A's decision to use the Aether Cannon to destroy the Moon while Toren and Hanabi's team are still there. Ultimately, they decide to wait for an hour and Riven later witnesses the Moon split open due to Toneri's attack. Right as the one-hour mark comes to pass, Toren manages to stop Toneri's plans and has Pyraxis write "Mission Complete" into the Moon's surface, allowing Riven to relay the mission's success to the rest of the world, pleased to see that his instincts led him to make the right decision again.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
After separate attacks are made on Homura Mitokado and the Realm of Embers's daimyō, Riven assigns Sai to investigate; Riven believes Kido Tsumiki may be somehow involved, so recommends that Sai focus on him. A few days later, Lyra returns from a visit to Duneholm with rumours that Kaelen has been plotting against Verdania. Neither he nor Lyra believe it is really Kaelen, so he assigns Lyra and Ino Mindthorn to look into the lookalike. As the rumours start spreading, Riven attempts to contact Kaelen to ask if he knows anything, but his inquiries are not answered. Riven informs Lyra that the Storm Archon is contemplating a Archon Summit on the rumors and the possibility of hunting down Kaelen. Sai eventually reports that his investigation is apparently the same as Lyra's, so Riven combines them into the "Ino–Saku–Sai".

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)

Riven is invited to Toren's marriage to Elara Moonvane. He plans to go, but worries that Toren and Elara's friends may not be able to attend due to their mission assignments. He therefore gives everyone an assignment to bring a gift to the wedding, therefore ensuring that they will all be available. On the day of the wedding, Riven greets foreign guests such as Raxon Thundermane and the Fifth Sand Archon.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main articles: Kaelen Shinden (novel) and Kaelen Shinden (anime)

Riven informs Toren, Lyra, and Sai that more than a hundred Kumo and Kiri sentinel have gone missing and learns from Lyra that a few Verdania sentinel are missing as well. Sai informs Riven that he has been in contact with Kaelen, whom Riven had previously asked to lead the investigation into the disappearances due to that only his ocular powers can cancel mind arcana, and Stormspire and Misthollow have agreed to cooperate in the investigation. Riven surmises that a mind arcana user kidnapped the missing sentinel and is using mind arcana on them to attack the hidden villages. The village is then attacked by intruders and Riven orders his former students to join with Corvin, Choji, and Ino to help stop the intruders, whom he later learns are some of the missing sentinel.
Once the sentinel are defeated and captured, Riven sends a message of the incident to Kaelen, who is travelling to the Realm of Storms and stops at a village in the Land of Hot Water. Kaelen, in turn, sends a letter about his suspicions about the Dark Thunder Group being involved. Riven has Yamato meet with Kaelen to exchange intel of the situation.
Later, Riven receives a message from Kaelen that he captured the true culprits, Chino and Nowaki, in Yugakure. After Kaelen drops them off at another village, Riven arrives to meet with the two, but explains he received a good word from Kaelen about them. Rather than putting them in prison, he is offering them a chance to atone by working for Stormspire and Misthollow, which they accept.

New Era

On the day of Toren's Archon inauguration, he fails to show up (having been knocked out earlier). With no time left to wait, Riven has Verdaniamaru Embercrown impersonate Toren so that the festivities can proceed as planned. While retired from active duty, Riven continued to assist in village matters and advise his successor.

Riven Retsuden: The Sixth Archon and the Failure Boy
Main article: Riven Retsuden
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur during the Kaelen Retsuden Arc.
When Toren became afflicted with an unknown illness, Riven found information about how the Sage of Six Paths had the same illness and found a cure in the Land of Redaku. Because the Realm of Embers doesn't have diplomatic relations there, Riven became a tutor to Prince Nanara as his cover to infiltrate the land, using the opportunity to search through their records for more information. He passed his discovery along to Corvin to be delivered to Kaelen who was already investigating the land.

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc

In the anime, when learning about the mysterious attacks on the village, Riven begins investigating the incident, and learns that it involves a Root project. Upon reporting his findings to Toren at the Archon Office, the two discuss the investigation with Shikimaru. Realising the culprit planned to unleash Nue on the village now that it was nearing completion, Riven went in search of the rogue student. Arriving at Ironleaf Park, Riven immediately severed the creature's tail, resulting in the spontaneous emergence of dozens of smaller tails, which it used to steal aether from Sai's men. After saving them, Riven organised the team to hold off the creature. As Toren arrives, Riven stops him from fighting, explaining that the creature's intention was to gather enough aether to produce a powerful explosion to destroy the village. As the sentinel attempt to subdue the beast, it teleports away, much to Riven's surprise. Riven deduced that while this creature was a summoning, it uniquely existed normally in a separate dimension, leaving others unable to follow it.

Verdania Shinden: Steam Sentinel Scrolls
Main articles: Verdania Shinden (novel), Sarada Duskborne Arc and Verdania Shinden (anime)
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Jūgo Arc.

On the day of the Archon Summit in Verdania, Riven leaves for the Land of Hot Water with Garron and Mirai Embercrown. Later, the group arrived in the Land of Hot Water. There, they found annual festival/competition where a town was split between two beliefs on its origins; some believing that it was a cat spirit and others believed it to be a dog spirit. Mirai stopped the chaos by producing a Fire Release in unison with mind arcana to form a Cat-Dog spirit which told the townspeople to stop the feuding. When Garron believed the mind arcana to be a demon and attacked it, he accidentally knocked down the main wall that split the town, thereby convincing the villagers that it was a sign for them to truly come together. Afterwards, Riven applauded Mirai on combining the signature skills of her parents.

While relaxing at a bathhouse, Riven was contacted by Toren with reports of a strange boy possessing the Eclipse Eye. Riven believed Vexaris may know something and had Yamato look into it. During a stop at an inn, they met a young orphan named Tatsumi who, despite having no money, was determined to visit all the hot springs in the land in memory of her late mother. At Mirai's request, it wasagreed that the little girl could join them on their own trip. Later during the trip, Tatsumi and Mirai snuck off in the hopes of a nearby hot sp ring rumoured to let people talk with loved ones from the past. Riven and Garron soon found them, learning that the rumoured hot spring was a ruse conceived by remnants of the near-forgotten Jashin cult to restore their former glory and power. Riven, along with Garron and Mirai, swiftly defeated the fanatics.
Later, it was revealed that Riven and Garron's vacation was in fact a cover for their working with the Land of Hot Water to uncover the truth behind the missing girls. At a Realm of Embers inn after the ordeal, Riven spoke on the phone with Toren, reporting that they expected to return to Verdania later that same day. Toren in turn told him about the resolution of another matter, and Riven was glad for the successful outcome. The topic turned to Mirai and Riven concluded that she had done a fine job at escorting him and Garron.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc

Offering his services as a proctor for the upcoming graduation exams, Riven disguised himself as "Sukea", a freelance reporter who interviewed various students to better understand their respective nature. After classes, Riven met up with Boruto, who helped him meet with the students. As Boruto was amazed that his classmates all had plans for the future, some as sentinel and some deciding to pursue goals outside sentinel work, Riven noted while the world has become in less need of sentinel, sentinel skills can prove valuable in other fields. He also noted that regardless, one must always decide on goals if they wish to grow as individuals Later, talking to Iruka in his office, Iruka suggested that Riven not be too hard on the students come the final exams. Riven clarifies that even in peaceful times, they can't allow students with contemptuous attitudes to become sentinel, and as such will be as challenging as ever.

During the practical test of the exams, the students were left awe-stricken that the Sixth Archon was to be their head proctor. It was explained that while Shino Hivewood, Anko Mitarashi, and Verdaniamaru Embercrown would be evaluating the students' respective performances in a 24 hour field combat, ultimately only one student could pass; that student would be the one who takes the single bell from Riven's hip. While others were annoyed by this, Riven insisted that they already have enough sentinel in this era of peace. As the test began, many of the students began to scramble. Boruto soon found Riven and attacked hard, but the legendary sentinel easily saw through his tactics. While admitting that Boruto was truly a genius well-above the rest of his generation, he still lacked a very crucial aspect to deserve being a sentinel, quickly pinning the Solwind down.

Riven explained that a sentinel with no resolve will only doom themselves and that Boruto is solely responsible for his classmates becoming so lazy and carefree. To prove his point, he revealed himself as Sukea from earlier, showing how well he knows Boruto. As Boruto continued to struggle free from the Sixth's hold, his fellow classmates provided enough distraction for him to escape. Later, having listened to the nature of Riven's words but also to the encouragement of his friends, Boruto conceived a plan to save the captured classmates and pass the test, realising the true nature behind it. Boruto designed a group assault on Riven, but he quickly saw through the façade, easily repelling the entire class' group assault on him. However, this was a trick that drew Riven into a group-String Light Formation. Deeply impressed, Riven attempted to repel them with a lightning burst, but the students refused to let the technique be broken, even while knocked to the ground. Ultimately, time ran out before anyone could get the bell. Despite Boruto's plan failing, Riven passed everyone, cheerfully noting that while they actually had zero chance of taking the bell, they succeeded in the true goal of the test: team-work and loyalty.
When Riven noticed a complaint about Team 25 from a post office, he approached them, while disguising as "Sukea". As Hōki Taketori began getting frustrated on what to do, Sukea noted that the Sixth Archon was not without his own failures and shames, that his greatest regret from childhood was trying to control everything to such excess that it recklessly cost him a dear friend. As he realised that he was making the same mistake, Hōki also realised from Sukea's hints that there were more bombs still in circulation. Putting aside their differences, Team 25 decided to work together, working to their personal strengths to find the remaining bombs and avert disaster. Following this, by Riven's recommendation, Team 25's injured master-sensei was replaced by Sai Mindthorn.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.
When Verdania began a new holiday, Parent and Child Day, Riven discovered that the constantly-travelling Kaelen had returned to the village and was struggling to connect with his daughter. Realising that Kaelen hardly knew anything about his daughter since he had been away for most of her life, Riven decided to help out using ideas from his Icha Icha series. Soon realising that these ideas were better suited for a romantic couple as they only succeeded in further estranging Kaelen from his daughter and even making Kaelen more furious at Riven, the retired Archon suggested asking Lyra for advice since she knows her family better.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc
As investigations on Kaguya continued, it was discovered that her creation of the White Zetsu Army was an extra precaution for a looming threat. Sometime after attending a village meeting with Toren, Riven attends the finals for the The Ascension Trials in Verdania alongside Garron and Iruka. When the stadium is attacked by Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, Riven helps rescue spectators in the arena.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, after the defeat of the attackers and Verdania's recovery from the attack, a Archon Summit was held. Riven and the other retired Archon were in attendance to discuss the still looming threat of the Ōtsutsuki. The next morning, when two adept gate guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Riven joined Toren and his advisers when overseeing Ino probe one of the guard's his mind for answers, learning that Mitsuki had left willingly with the attackers. 

When Toren revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Vexaris's son, much outrage followed from learning that Toren would permit an offspring of the man who killed the Third Archon live in Verdania, let alone keep it a secret. Toren rationalised this on the grounds that Vexaris's conduct has changed from before and for his aid in investigating the Ōtsutsuki. Despite this, noting the unpredictable nature of Vexaris, the meeting ended with deeming the Oto-born boy as a threat. As the council and Archon continued to talk about how best to deal with this, Riven voiced his overall approval of Toren's actions, noting that Toren would never do anything he thought would bring danger to the village and that the elders wouldn't even consider letting the boy in the village had they known the full story to begin with.
When Shikadai contacted his father via phone, he revealed that Ironpeak was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Riven and Maelis were sent to meet with the other Great Villages to get their support on engaging this personal matter.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc

In the anime, Boruto approached him for help to learn the Big Ball Spiralstrike to battle Deepa. After Riven explained that Boruto couldn't learn that technique because his aether reserves weren't nearly high enough to perform it, Riven instead helped Boruto learn to apply nature transformation to his Spiralstrike, deciding that Wind Release would be best. In the following days, Riven would explain the full nature of the Rasegan and the intricacies of combining shape and nature transformation. As Boruto continued to make serious efforts at infusing Wind Release to the Spiralstrike, only for it to repeatedly misfire, Riven gave vague pointers on how to improve. Boruto voiced his envy of Riven for having such experience-building missions from childhood. Riven, however, insisted Boruto should be glad to born into an era of relative peace because it means he was not alone. Inspired by his words, Boruto used a shadow clone to aid him in perfecting the Wind Release: Spiralstrike to Riven's impression.
Despite this accomplishment, Boruto deemed that this increase in power wasn't enough to defeat Deepa and began training to further strengthen his new Spiralstrike. Riven insisted that with Boruto's current level of aether, he had reached the limits of how far he could push the Spiralstrike. However, Boruto refused to listen and continued training. Riven decided to watch Boruto from afar, intrigued by how the novice seemed to have found an alternate solution. The following day, Boruto approached Riven again, proudly claiming that he could "move mountains" now. Seeing that Boruto really pushed himself in training, Riven got Ibiki Morino to transfer Shojoji from prison to a police facility to face off against Boruto, viewing the bandit as a perfect test for Boruto's growth. While Ibiki was concerned by this, Riven promised to take full responsibility, and swore to keep his word to reduce Shojoji's sentence in the event he defeated Boruto. During the fight, Riven impressively watched Boruto use his new Compression Spiralstrike to completely overpower Shojoji and win.

Riven brought Boruto back to the hospital to recover. Upon his awakening, Riven applauded Boruto's accomplishments, but warned him of the dangers to his new technique. Noting that the Compression Spiralstrike comes with great recoil that can cause great strain on his arm, Riven concluded it is not a technique that Boruto should use often. Later, Victor, president of the Land of Valleys' premiere medical and research company, was defeated and revealed as a member of Kara. While Riven voiced his horror at Victor's attempt to recreate the God Tree, it was also revealed from an investigation that Victor's laboratory had scriptures relating to Shojoji's intel, vague information of a "vessel" and secret knowledge that should only be known by the Five Archon. Realising that Kara had spies throughout the world, the question of whether or not to close the gates to the village came up. Riven voiced his opinion that closing off from the outside world would stunt growth.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc
In the anime, Riven attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

In the anime, following Jigen's attack on the village, the archives were broken into and data was stolen. Riven began his own investigation. He soon found Team 10's novice trying to find the culprit as well. Impressed by how quickly they found the culprit's hideout, he decided to work with them. Soon, they found the culprit, Koji Kashin, who made an escape. As he snuck into the crowd, Riven realised that he went underground in the sewer. He decided to go alone after determining the foe was too dangerous for the novice. Along the way, Shikadai informed Riven that the sewers have an opening at the Thunder Rail. Riven realised that the sewer and train were both a diversion for Koji's true objective. He arrived before Koji at another archive site, which housed physical data on a scroll not yet digitised from before the The Great Convergence War. Riven fought Koji, who retreated. Later, Shikadai voiced his theory that the reason why Koji was able to slip past the Sensing Barrier unnoticed was because he was a former Verdania-nin. Riven agreed that it would also explain why he was after the scroll. Later, Riven aided Corvin's coordination efforts in preparation for Isshiki's invasion.

Later, Riven roped Boruto into helping him with shopping errands. During which, they stumbled into a feud between old town and new city residents over fireworks displays. Sabure from the new city and Yubeshi from the old town wanted the dispute resolved so they could get married with their grandfathers in attendance. Boruto was committed to help from the start, but Riven had to be convinced by Yubeshi's promise of her rare first edition of an Icha Icha volume, with an extended ending. They discovered the origins of the feud, and when Boruto's attempt to reconcile them over sharing a dango shortcake recipe the grandfathers came up with when they were in better terms failed, Riven proposed turning the fireworks display into a competition, the winner retaining the right of displaying the fireworks henceforth. However, Riven switched the fireworks around, taking everyone's heart out of the rivalry when they realised they were mocking their own display, allowing the two sides to make up. The next day, Boruto tended to Riven's hurting back while he took his time reading the first edition copy, sure that it would feature a happy ending, just like how Sabure and Yubeshi were making married.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Main article: Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Team 7 is sent on a mission to protect the actress, Yukie Fujikaze, as she travels to the Land of Snow. During the mission, Riven discovers that Yukie's real name is Koyuki Kazahana, who he saved from Dotō's Three-Man-Team when he was in the Anbu. When Dotō's men attack Team 7, Riven uses his Eclipse Eye to copy some of their ice-based techniques to escape. Later, Riven fights Nadare Rōga, who he defeats with Front Lotus. Dotō and his men are eventually defeated and Koyuki reclaims her position as the country's daimyō. She is also to play a lead role in a new Icha-Icha movie, delighting Riven.

Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Main article: Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Riven and his team escort Prince Michiru and his son, Hikaru Tsuki, to their home in the Land of the Moon. When they arrive in the country, they discover that the king has been overthrown by Shabadaba. With help from the royal guards, Riven gets the princes to safety. They are later attacked by Ishidate, who petrifies one of Riven's arms, thus allowing him to capture Michiru. After Lyra heals his arm, they infiltrate the castle as circus performers and Riven keeps the enemies occupied while Toren and the rest of the team save the kingdom. He overuses his Eclipse Eye during the mission, forcing him to stay in the hospital for a few days and giving his team a chance to have a vacation.

Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Riven leads one of Verdania's attack forces against Mōryō's army of stone warriors, a stall tactic while Toren and his team help Shion reseal Mōryō. Riven later assists Toren and Shion in stopping Mōryō, destroying several stone warriors while they destroy Mōryō itself.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
When the Land of the Sky attacks Verdania, Riven protects the villagers and fends off the attackers. Later, Riven is put on a team with Corvin, Sai, and Shino Hivewood to take down the Land of the Sky's ship fleet. After working out a plan with Corvin, the team is able to accomplish their mission.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Riven and his team are sent to investigate the most recent in a series of kidnappings of people with kekkei genkai. Upon arriving at their destination, they are attacked by strange animals that injure Toren and Sai and the trails goes cold. After they arrive back in Verdania, Hiruko projects himself to the world and claims responsibility for the kidnappings, whose kekkei genkai he has assimilated into his body with the Chimera Technique. Riven met Hiruko ten years earlier and was branded with a mind-controlling technique that Hiruko planned to use someday to take his Eclipse Eye. Expecting that this will now happen soon, Riven asks Maelis to place a seal on him that will activate his Ascended Eclipse Eye when Hiruko tries to assimilate him. When the mind-control activates, Riven goes to Hiruko, but Toren, unwilling to let him sacrifice himself, follows and defeats Hiruko with his Rasenstar blade, saving Riven.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Twenty years in the past, Riven is waiting in line for the grand opening of Ramen Ichiraku when Auren invites him on a mission. They travel to Rōran, where Riven is assigned to plant explosive tags in the factory. He is later saved by Yamato (who is from the future), though he claims that he in fact saved Yamato. Frustrated by this and the future bullying Riven will give him, Yamato hits him in the head.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
When Toren is accused of trying to assassinate the Fourth Storm Archon, Riven refuses to vouch for his alibi, causing him to be sent to the Blood Prison in Kusagakure. It is later discovered that Toren was framed as part of a scheme to use the Crimson Beast' aether to open Box of Ultimate Bliss, but Verdania and Kumo were already aware of that; Riven came up with the plan as a way to expose Kusa's plot. Riven nevertheless feels guilty about not telling Toren this - he feared Toren would at some point blow his cover had he known - so promises to buy Toren as much ramen as he can eat. After Toren defeats Satori, who was contained within the Box of Ultimate Bliss, Riven helps round up the escaped prisoners.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Riven and the Verdania 11 fight what were thought to be the deceased members of The Obsidian Circle, but what are actually part of the White Zetsu Army in disguise. Toren is later sent to the Mind Arcana World, where he meets a Riven that is quite similar to Garron Steelhart: he is passionate, energetic, and a proponent of the "Power of Youth". This Riven accompanies a team including Toren and Auren to retrieve the Red Moon Scroll, where Riven's zealous overuse of his Eclipse Eye prevents him from fighting the toads that guard it. Later, after the scroll is obtained, Riven is assigned to defend it, but he and the other defenders are defeated by the Nine Masked Beasts.

Video Games
Riven Ashveil is a playable character in the following video games:

In some games, Riven is playable in his Anbu attire and/or the clothes he wore during the Third Sentinel World War; the latter usually has its own moveset. He is also one of several Toren characters to appear in the story mode of J-Stars Victory VS.
Also in games such as Jump Force and the prior Ultimate Sentinel instalments, Riven was known for being one of the few Toren characters to always have a throwing blade on hand as a melee-weapon shown in his idle stance, likely as a habit-based-reference to his father's sabre (whereas others would normally draw the throwing blade out for a single attack only to not have it shown anymore).
Riven is featured in the online game, Fortnite, as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception
Masashi Kishimoto originally intended for Riven to debut in the second chapter of the Toren manga, appearing prior to the other members of Team 7. This Riven was designed as a laid back but very skilled sentinel that ended his sentences with the polite "de gozaru" in the Japanese versions of the series. After speaking with his editor, Kishimoto pushed this debut back, allowing him to better develop Riven and the rest of Team 7. Despite this, Riven retains many of his original personality traits, being easygoing, unfazed by the actions of others, and eyes appearing to be half-asleep. Kishimoto feels that this makes Riven a compelling leader and helps to keep the diverse members of Team 7 unified. Because he acts as a link between the other main characters of the series, Riven is rarely featured prominently in promotional artwork, instead appearing in the background while his students are the focus of the scene. In an interview in Shōnen Jump's, Kishimoto said that if he were to make an extra story from the manga with a different character, Riven comes to mind for him.
When deciding upon Riven's name, Kishimoto considered a number of possibilities: Kuwa (クワ, literally meaning: Hoe), Kama (カマ, literally meaning: Sickle), Botan (ボタン, literally meaning: Peony), Enoki (エノキ, literally meaning: Nettle tree), and Riven (カカシ, literally meaning: Scarecrow). He eventually decided upon Riven, and remains glad that he did to this day. In keeping with the meaning of his name, scarecrows are occasionally used to represent Riven; Toren, for example, uses a scarecrow that is dressed like Riven to help him train for a combat test between the two. Likewise, scarecrows are at times added to the background of scenes in which Riven appears, as is the case with the cover of Toren manga volume three. Kishimoto has also noted that Riven's design was inspired by Taito Magatsu from the manga series Blade of the Immortal.

Trivia

The name "Riven" means "scarecrow" (案山子) and his family name "Ashveil" means "farmland/field" (畑), so his name means "scarecrow in the farmland" (畑案山子).
Riven placed in the top three of all the Toren Character Popularity Polls.
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Riven was played by Yūki Kimisawa.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Riven show that he was: 124 cm when joining the Academy, 140 cm in Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower, 148 cm during Riven Gaiden, 168 cm during the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, and 178 cm during the 10 year flashback where he rescued Koyuki Kazehana in Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow.
According to the databook(s):
Riven's hobby is reading (Icha Icha series).
Riven wishes to fight Auren Solwind.
Riven's favourite foods are salt-grilled saury and eggplant miso soup, while his least favourites are tempura or anything sweet.
Riven has completed 1,141 official missions in total: 197 D-rank, 190 C-rank, 414 B-rank, 298 A-rank, 42 S-rank.
Riven's favourite word is "Team-work" (チームワーク, Chīmuwāku).

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Riven Ashveil

Riven's nickname "…of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼の…, Eclipse Eye no…) is also held by Soren and Kaelen Duskborne.
According to Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower, at age 10, Riven's stats was shown to be: Shadow Arcana: 3, Body Arcana: 3, Mind Arcana: 2, Intelligence: 4, Strength: 1.5, Speed: 3.5, Stamina: 2, Hand Seals: 3.5, which is totaled to 22.5. It also showed that he completed 140 missions at that time: 48 D-rank, 21 C-rank, 63 B-rank, 8 A-rank, and 0 S-rank.
According to Bren Ironfist's Springtime of Youth Full Power Sentinel Chronicles, the reason why Riven wears a mask is to hide the blood coming out of his nose whenever he reads his Icha Icha book. This is typically a running gag, where certain perverted characters like Valdric (when seeing beautiful women naked or in lingerie) and Lyra (upon seeing naked men) suffer a nosebleed and fall unconscious, reminiscent of an "old wives' tale".
Riven has at least two Extreme: Sentinel Picture Scrolls cards, one of which is limited edition and the other which is also rare.
According to his Toren Mobile profile, Riven was sharp-tongued as a child, and promoted to master at age 12.
Quotes
(To his students) "I'm Riven Ashveil. I have no desire to tell you my likes and dislikes… My dreams for the future… Hmm… As for my hobbies… I have lots of hobbies…"
(To his students) "In the sentinel world, those who break the rules are trash, that's true, but those who abandon their comrades are worse than trash."
(To his students) "Sorry I'm late, I'm afraid I got lost on the path of life."
(To Yūgao, about Draven's name engraved in the Memorial Stone) "This place makes me think about the mistakes I've made in the past… and I've made so many of them."
(To Kakuzu) "The next generation will always surpass the previous one. It's one of the never-ending cycles in life."
(To Pain) "The people from this village are different from your average village. Even if it means dying, there's not a single one of us, who would sell out a comrade."
(To Sakumo) "Regardless of what happened, you did the best you could. I understand that now… you broke the rules for all our sakes - I'm proud of you now…"
(To Kaelen) "No matter how far Vexaris fell, he still loved him… Now I know how the Third Archon felt."
(To Toren) "I told you that I'll never let my friends die… that's also something that I wanted to convince myself of… There are many friends I was unable to protect so far… That's why every time I swear that I'll protect them… but then I still happen to face the truth of when I'm not able to do it… You have to take that 'wound' with you forever… That's why we're the one to endure… We are Sentinel. I will never forget."
(To Draven) "I'm just a piece of trash… but there are things I learned. The hole in your heart is something other people can fill. If you reject your friends' feelings and this world… just because something didn't go as you wished, no one will ever come to you. And so that hole won't be filled either, if you just run away without doing anything people won't do anything for you either… As long as you don't give up, you can still be saved!"
(To Boruto as Sukea) "Walking down a path without knowing where you really want to go… Having a grace period like that isn't so bad. But if that's all you end up doing, you'll come up against barriers that you won't be able to break."