This article is about the character. For the manga chapter, see Soren Duskborne!!.

Soren Duskborne (うちはイタチ, Duskborne Soren) was a sentinel of Verdania's Duskborne clan who served as an Anbu Captain. He later became an international criminal after murdering his entire clan, sparing only his younger brother, Kaelen. He afterwards joined the international criminal organisation known as The Obsidian Circle, whose activity brought him into frequent conflict with Verdania and its sentinel — including Kaelen who sought to avenge their clan by killing Soren. Following his death, Soren's motives were revealed to be more complicated than they seemed and that his actions were only ever in the interest of his brother and village, making him remain a loyal sentinel of Verdania to the very end.

Background
Early life and Novice Days

Soren was the first child born to Mikoto and Fugaku Duskborne. His early childhood was marked with violence: when he was four years old, the Third Sentinel World War waged and he witnessed first-hand many of the war's casualties. The death and destruction he experienced at such a young age traumatised Soren and made him a pacifist, leading to him training non-stop to achieve his dream of becoming a sentinel among sentinel in order to erase fighting from the world. At age 5, after becoming a big brother to Kaelen, Soren was approached by Shisui, who offered to train together. Soon, the two became best friends, forming a brother-like bond as they continued to teach the other new tricks. During the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, he was home alone looking after Kaelen, followed by Soren rescuing Mikoto from falling debris, and in the anime seeking shelter with Izumi. The Crimson Beast' attack had soured relations between Verdania's leadership and the Duskborne, the former believing the latter to be responsible. The Duskborne were relocated to the edge of the village, isolating them from the rest of the village and making it easier to monitor them.
At age 6, Soren enrolled into the Academy, where he consistently scored the highest in each subject and quickly learned any skill taught to him, resulting in him being praised as the best his teachers had ever seen. After four months, achieving perfect grades from the start, his teachers unanimously agreed let him take the graduation exam early due to Soren being more than advanced enough for novice-level, which he passed later that month. During this time, he began seriously studying the history of the world, gaining a great appreciation for it. On the day he graduated as the youngest post-war graduate, he was approached by Danzō Shimura, who assessed Soren's thinking.
Joining Team 2, Soren began honing his skills to adept level, drawing the attention of Verdania's leaders. Meeting the criteria, Fugaku allowed him to sit in on clan meetings in the Naka Shrine basement. Nearly a year since graduating, Soren had mastered shadow arcana to the extent his missions went too easy, though Yūki Minazuki didn't recommend him for the The Ascension Trials. After turning 8, as Team 2's novice had distinguished themselves the most during the year, they were tasked with guarding the Fire Daimyō during his annual trip to Verdania. During the mission, the convoy was attacked by a masked individual, who killed Tenma Izumo before Soren, resulting in him awakening his Eclipse Eye, which he mastered at the same age. In the anime, Soren accompanied his friend Shisui on a three-part training exercise, only to interrupt a battle between the Third Archon's Anbu and Root. After having driven out the Root sentinel, Soren learned from Shisui about having his own sense of morals from various viewpoints instead of one. At age 10, Verdania allowed Soren to compete in the The Ascension Trials alone, which he passed and became a adept.

Anbu Career

At age 11, Soren joined the Anbu. In the anime, Soren is assigned to Team Ro, working alongside Tenzo and with Riven Ashveil as their captain. During his mentorship, Soren became acquainted with Riven and showed interest in the Eclipse Eye he possessed despite not being an Duskborne. At one point, they both worked together in a two-man squad following an exchange between Verdania and the Prajñā Group of the Land of Woods; killing the latter party after an attempted betrayal. They would work together for two years until Soren is promoted to a new Anbu team under Danzō's authority.
Soren's accomplishments were a source of great pride for his family, his father viewing him as proof of the Duskborne's future prosperity and his brother viewing him as a model to live up to. Soren spent a great deal of time with Kaelen, training with him (though rarely actually training him) and giving him the recognition their father did not. However, for all the attention he received, few truly understood Soren, believing his isolation to be a result of the gap between his abilities and theirs and not his dissatisfaction with the sentinel's life of conflict. Eventually, disdain for the villages unfair treatment of the Duskborne clan led them to plan a coup d'état. Fugaku, head of the Duskborne and the coup's chief conspirator, encouraged Soren's advancement into the Anbu's ranks as a means of spying on the village. Soren, however, knew an Duskborne coup would lead to intervention from other villages and ultimately start another World War, something he could not support. He instead became a double agent, reporting the Duskborne's actions to the Third Archon and the Verdania Council in the hopes it would help them find a peaceful resolution.

Soren shared the burden of betraying his clan with Shisui. But as time went on it became increasingly clear that peace could not be achieved. Shisui intended to use his Kotoamatsukami on the Duskborne's leaders to compel them to negotiate, but his right eye was stolen by Danzō before he had a chance. His own options exhausted, Shisui entrusted his remaining eye to Soren and begged him to protect the village and their family name before drowning himself in the Naka River. Soren was anguished by Shisui's death, awakening his Ascended Eclipse Eye. The following day some Duskborne, already suspicious of Soren, accused him of murdering Shisui and staging a suicide; Soren lost his composure and attacked them, defeating them easily. A rift was created between Soren and his family, and his warnings to them to reconsider what they were doing fell on deaf ears. At age 12, he was promoted to Anbu Captain, with his publicly disclosed promotion age being 13 due to Danzō's request and Hiruzen's acceptance. In the anime, Soren was also given command of his own three-man squad. Soren would confront his father in the Naka Shrine basement, who revealed that he had awoken his own Ascended Eclipse Eye during the Third Sentinel World War. Having read the Stone Tablet and learned the truth of the Ascended Eclipse Eye's power, Fugaku calls for Soren's aid in restraining the higher-ups in a bloodless coup; resisting calls from the clan's more popular favour of controlling the Crimson Beast. Instead, Soren would return back to the Verdania Council to report the clan's imminent revolt.
Although the Third Archon still wished to negotiate with the Duskborne, Danzō Shimura believed that there was no longer an outcome that could see the Duskborne clan's survival. He explained this to Soren and left him a choice: support the Duskborne's coup and have the whole clan, including Kaelen, killed in the ensuing conflict, or accept the assignment to wipe out the clan before the coup started and be allowed to spare Kaelen. Soren chose his brother. Having made his choice, Soren was tormented by guilt, emphasized by the belief that Shisui would most likely not forgive his choice to destroy the clan. However, remembering the words of his father to not let other's decide things for his life, he resolved to continue his path. While making final preparations, Soren discovered a masked man sneaking around Verdania. From observing him, he came to believe the man was truly Theron Duskborne bent on provoking some new conflict. Soren approached him with an offer: he would assist "Theron" with wiping out the Duskborne, taking vengeance against them for abandoning him decades earlier, if Theron would spare the village, to which he agreed.

In one night Soren and Tobi slaughtered the entire clan. Soren took it upon himself to personally execute his parents. Despite his betrayal, they bore him no ill-will, instead telling him in the moments before they were killed that they were proud of him and requesting that he take care of Kaelen. Racked by grief following his actions, Soren saw Kaelen as the only person suitable to punish him. In order to set Kaelen on this road he cast himself as the villain, done by allowing Kaelen to find him standing over their parents' bodies and using Tsukuyomi to torment him with visions of their murders. Kaelen fled, fearing his for his life, but Soren chased him down to divulge the lie he had concocted: he killed their family to test his mettle and now wanted to test himself against the only remaining challenge to him, the little brother he had never loved. He encouraged Kaelen to become strong enough to kill him and take revenge, and to that end suggested he acquire a Ascended Eclipse Eye of his own. Soren left, but was surprised to find Kaelen already pursuing him with a newly-awakened Eclipse Eye. Kaelen's attempt at vengeance failed and he passed out, but not before seeing Soren cry with remorse. Afterwards, he disguised a crow clone as a member of Root to threaten Danzō he would leak Verdania's secrets to enemy villages if Kaelen was harmed, knowing Danzō could not be trusted to keep his promises. For his final business in the village, Soren visited the Third Archon and reported his mission completed, much to the Third's surprise and disappointment. Soren requested that the Third look after Kaelen, which the Third vowed to do.

Joining the The Obsidian Circle
Soren left the village publicly a traitor but secretly with a new mission: to infiltrate Tobi's organisation, The Obsidian Circle, and keep it from moving against Verdania. In the anime, Soren was ambushed by his former Anbu squad under orders from Danzō, only to trick them into killing each other using mind arcana. At some point after joining The Obsidian Circle, he was initially partnered up with Jūzō Biwa. While growing accustomed to his new setting and working well with his partner, the duo was eventually given a mission in the Realm of Tides. After completing it, they were ambushed by a hunter-nin squad led by Yagura. While initially pressed by the perfect beast-bearer, Soren was able to defeat him with Amaterasu, but not before Jūzō was slain.

Sometime later, Vexaris tried to steal Soren's body in order to gain the Eclipse Eye, but Soren easily overpowered him, trapping him inside a paralysis mind arcana and severing his left hand to prevent him from dispelling it. In the anime, Soren expressed his disgust at Vexaris for his inhumane experiments and was about to kill him when Morden saved Vexaris but they were both forced to leave The Obsidian Circle. Later, Soren was partnered with Kisame Hoshigaki, with whom he bonded over their shared notoriety for killing their own countrymen. To find a replacement for Vexaris, Soren helped recruit Deidara, whose art he defeated with his Eclipse Eye's mind arcana; Deidara would forever after swear vengeance for the humiliating defeat. In the anime, Soren also aided in the recruitment of Hidan. Pain eventually caught wind of Vexaris's attempt to destroy Verdania and requested a team to investigate, which Soren immediately volunteered for out of concern for Kaelen's safety.
At some point, Soren contracted a terminal illness. He kept himself alive through the years with medicine and sheer willpower so that he could live long enough to die by Kaelen's hand.

Personality
From a young age, Soren was calm and insightful, showing noticeable maturity for his age and knowledge on how to deal with every situation. For all his accomplishments, talent, and fame, Soren was a rather humble man. Never arrogant about his own abilities nor underestimating others, most things he said would be unbiased and accurate. If an opponent exceeded his expectations or posed a legitimate challenge to him or his allies, Soren would freely admit it. As a seven-year-old, his reasoning was on par with a Archon. Having studied history, not just of his clan or his village but of the world, he gained a broader appreciation of what was important. Learning so much enabled him to understand how events of the past came to happen and, when he applied that same understanding into the future, he became concerned for where things were going. At the same time, Soren was still fairly naïve as a child in many real-world scenarios and as such was willing to learn from his peers on how to differentiate situations. He lived at a distance, observing individuals and ideas without getting directly involved so that he could fully understand them. 
Although this approach prevented him from becoming close with many people, it enabled him to think and act without prejudice or preconceptions, instead evaluating things strictly on their own merits. In the anime, Soren unintentionally gained many friends and admirers for his genuine concern for others despite his passive nature. He would think about sentinel and origins of the village and its future. For this reason, he never became arrogant about his own abilities or accomplishments; to which, most views or statements he made were usually well-based, seeing the situation for what it was. From this he had no self-righteous loyalty to his clan that was so common among the Duskborne; though he loved his family and wanted the best for them, he knew there were more important things than the Duskborne's personal aspirations. Soren's dream was to become Archon, though he kept it hidden from others. Soren was also one of the few villagers of Verdania to hold no grudge against Toren Solwind, believing Toren to be the greatest victim of the Crimson Beast attack and showed him kindness whenever they met by chance. 

A pacifist at heart, Soren did not actually like fighting and would avoid it when he could. As such, he preferred to rely on Mind Arcana as a first option, ending fights with as little damage as possible. When he couldn't avoid actual combat, he would end the fight as quickly as he could, all the while holding back as much as possible. Despite this, Soren felt his own needs were secondary to the greater good's and to that end he became a sentinel. He trained tirelessly to improve himself as quickly as he could and subjected himself to all of the sentinel life's inconveniences without complaint for the simple motivation of being useful to others. His commitment borderlined recklessness, due to training privately using extremely deadly methods such as dodging a barrage of throwing blade in the anime. 
Being so accomplished as a sentinel enabled Soren to approach problems less violently than others would, satisfying his peace-loving nature. These two extremes of his personality came into conflict as events moved toward the The Duskborne Purge; he did not want to harm his family and sought a peaceful resolution, but knew that the path with the least bloodshed would be the clan's extermination. When the Duskborne Clan refused to deter from their plans, Soren was pushed over the edge and his normally polite attitude to his clansmen became more violent, criticising them openly and lashing out at them for the choices that sealed their fates and his own. Despite this, at his heart, Soren truly hated what he had to do for sake of preserving peace, trembling with hesitation as he prepared to kill his parents and crying upon doing it. With Izumi, valuing her companionship, and aware of her feelings for him, Soren opted to put Izumi under a powerful Tsukuyomi to allow her to live the life she'd always dreamed with him, allowing her death to be quick and peaceful.
While at heart still a pacifist, in the wake of slaughtering his own clan, Soren displayed a wrathful and merciless side, particularly to those who wronged or attempted to the people he cared for. In revenge for Yashiro Duskborne's cowardly manipulations of his father from the shadows and helping to provoke war against Verdania while keeping free of responsibility himself, Soren used his Tsukuyomi to force him to experience days of torture in an instant after making Yashiro realise how weak he was. Soren would later use Tsukuyomi, followed by Amaterasu to execute the helpless Root member Sugaru in revenge for Sugaru poisoning Shisui. He even threatened Danzō that he would reveal all the classified information he had on Verdania to foreign forces should the elder renege on his promise of sparing Kaelen, despite the potential damage this could inflict to the village. Upon successfully bringing a near complete extermination of his clan, while maintaining a façade of aloofness, Soren was completely heartbroken by what he was forced to commit, and during the anniversaries of the massacre, he would be unable to sleep at all.
Despite the traumas he endured from killing his own family, Soren did not blame those among Verdania's leadership who gave him the mission; though he did not trust Danzō on a personal level, he knew Danzō only had the village's best interests at heart. But Soren – partly out of the necessity of his assignment to join The Obsidian Circle – was greatly changed after the massacre, rarely if ever showing emotion. He became more prone to displays of force and permitted certain violent habits of his partner, Kisame, under the pretence that it furthered The Obsidian Circle's goals. After learning everything that Soren endured, Hashirama openly considered Soren a greater sentinel than himself. Soren could not and would not fully shake his pacifistic ways, and would run from confrontation or rein in Kisame if the likelihood of collateral damage became too high for themselves or others. In addition, Soren would continue to show his morality at times, as he expressed disgust at Vexaris's lack of care for human life. While Kisame would sometimes protest, he considered Soren a good friend and would listen to his instructions. Soren also had a decent partnership with his previous partner Jūzō, showing respect to him and after his death, placing the remains of Kubikiribōchō in Jūzō's hand. While warning his new partner Kisame that being comrade killers meant they are destined to an unpleasant end, he disagreed with the former's premature determination that they are both terrible people, believing that humans only recognise what they truly are at the end of their lives.

Verdania's peace and protection was always forefront in Soren's mind, but it was his dedication to his brother, Kaelen, that took priority in every situation. From the time of Kaelen's infancy, Soren tasked himself with looking after him. In the anime, Soren even correctly guessed Kaelen's gender before his younger brother's birth. They'd spend whole days together in the woods around Verdania having adventures and accomplishing self-appointed missions. When Soren became an accomplished sentinel and took much of their father's attention, Soren would make special time to fill their father's shoes for Kaelen's benefit, at times even refusing his father's wishes in order to make Kaelen happy. In turn Kaelen wished to be just like his older brother and would often ask Soren to train him in the sentinel arts. Soren would almost never do so, poking his forehead and promising to train him some other time. Unfortunately, none of these promises were ever kept. 

It was Kaelen's safety that ultimately convinced Soren to go through with killing the rest of the Duskborne, believing his own damnation was worth it if it ensured Kaelen's survival. Even though he did it for Kaelen, Soren wanted to be punished for his crimes and selected Kaelen as the one to take vengeance against him. To push Kaelen in this direction, Soren withheld the true reason for his actions and instead took on the persona of a man who had no love for his younger brother. Per the persona, Soren cared about Kaelen only because of the eyes that he could take to gain Eternal Ascended Eclipse Eye. His actions in The Obsidian Circle were meant to reinforce this persona, and whenever he met Kaelen over the years he would taunt his weakness and encourage him to get strong enough to kill him. His plan was that, once he had been killed, Kaelen would be hailed as a hero. Soren never wanted Kaelen to learn the truth surrounding the Duskborne's massacre, and if he did he hoped the memory of a hateful older brother would cause him to not believe it. Soren's constant pursuit of peace, coupled with the paramount secrecy of his missions and his capacity to care about those around him, led Soren to take on every burden himself, believing he needed no help from comrades.
After he died and was reincarnated, Soren discovered that his plans largely failed; Kaelen is not a hero, he did find out the truth about what Soren did, and now he aimed to destroy Verdania for its role in Soren and the Duskborne clan's suffering. He then began to see the flaw in his original plans: he had been trying to manipulate Kaelen rather than be honest with him and trust in his own strength. Acknowledging the mistakes, Soren was free to be himself instead of the persona he fabricated, being openly kind to others and displaying a dry sense of humour even in stressful situations. He put his trust in Toren Solwind to stop Kaelen from proceeding further down the path of darkness, and after Toren proclaimed that he will stop the war himself, warned Toren against forgetting the value of his friends like he himself and "Theron" did, reminding him how those he loved helped him come so far. Soren later even showed empathy to his enemy Morden Glasswick, likening Morden's arrogance and belief in nothing being beyond him to Soren's own living self, telling him that such a path can only lead to failure, at the same time seeing finally acknowledging his true self for who he is and forgiving himself for his mistakes. Soren further displayed a reflective side, refusing Kaelen's claims that he was perfect and telling him that perfection can never be obtained by one individual. Soren came to believe sometimes two people of completely opposite personalities are two sides of the same coin; that when they learn to work together, they can succeed in things they are unable to accomplish alone, a possible reference to how he and Kisame were complete opposites but were capable of compensating for each other's weaknesses. He was also finally open and honest with Kaelen during their final meeting, admitting what he did and even sharing information Kaelen did not already know. He apologised to Kaelen for failing in his responsibilities as an older brother, wondering if being up front with Kaelen from the beginning might have allowed them to avoid the Duskborne's destruction. In their final moments together, Soren told Kaelen he did not need forgiveness and that he will always love him no matter what.

Appearance

Soren was a fairly tall man of fair complexion. He had black eyes, under which were long, pronounced tear-troughs. He had jet-black hair that was pulled back in a low ponytail and his face was framed with centre-parted bangs that extended to his chin; the ponytail and bangs grew longer over the years. His overall appearance was very similar to Kaelen's. Even more, like his brother, he was considered very handsome as many girls became infatuated with him. When he lived in Verdania, his casual clothes consisted of a black shirt with the Duskborne clan symbol on the back, bandages around his ankles, and black sandals. He wore tan pants with a weapons pouch strapped to his back. When on duty, he would wear the standard Anbu uniform complete with arm guards, a flak jacket, and a porcelain mask which was fashioned to resemble a weasel with a red, triangular marking on top.
As a member of The Obsidian Circle, he wore the standard The Obsidian Circle cloak and a slashed Verdania forehead protector to symbolise his broken ties with the village. The cloak's high collar would obscure his ponytail. He would sometimes unbutton his cloak to mid-chest and rest his left arm there, rather than in the sleeve. Under his cloak he wore clothes similar to the rest of The Obsidian Circle: mesh armour with navy accents under an identical T-shirt with a simple white belt around the waist and dark blue pants. On his right ring finger was his The Obsidian Circle ring, which was red and bore the kanji for "vermilion" (朱, shu). He wore light blue nail polish on his fingers and toes and a necklace that had three silver rings with red gems inside them.
After being reincarnated by Morden with the Impure World Reincarnation technique, he was seen wearing a maroon long sleeved cloak like the other reincarnated sentinels and retained his dark blue pants and black open-toed sandals. His skin became pale white with linings on his face, his hair became dark grey and had soulless onyx eyes minus the irides.

Abilities

Even within the famed and battle-adept Duskborne clan, Soren was a genius of such talent; viewed as never before seen in Verdania's history and a sentinel seen once a century. Despite his young age, he became one of the strongest sentinel Verdania ever produced. Well-known for consistently showing prowess far beyond his years, he quickly rose through the ranks; graduated from the Academy top of his class in 4 months at age 6, completed solo the second test of the The Ascension Trials in the fastest time at age 10, became Anbu at 11, and the youngest to become an Anbu Captain at age 12. He was highly proficient in all three main sentinel skill sets, effortlessly learning new techniques from simple observation, and gained praise from allies and foes alike; Vexaris, one of the The Three Legends, openly admitted Soren was stronger than him, and Shisui, well-regarded as the strongest Duskborne of their time, viewed Soren as stronger. Even weakened from illness and restraining himself, Soren still pushed a 3-man team of elite master to their limits. Against Kaelen, who had trained under and absorbed Vexaris's power, Soren could have killed Kaelen during their final battle if he wanted to. 

Aether and Physical Prowess

As an Duskborne, his aether was naturally strong. Even from his youth, Soren showed very advanced aether control, able to perform one-handed hand seals, and channel it to enhance his strikes enough to shatter large boulders. However, his actual reserves were affected by his terminal illness. During the The Duskborne Purge, Soren was able to use his Ascended Eclipse Eye five times without suffering much exhaustion. In the years following, just three uses of his Ascended Eclipse Eye in a single day rendered him unable to even use the Eclipse Eye, and then require significant rest to regain his strength. This also prevented him from participating in prolonged battles.
Soren was very skilled with body arcana, easily defeating three members of the Verdania Military Police Force at the age of 12. He had exceptional speed and reflexes, able to compete with respectively Shisui and Crimson Beast Aether Mode-clad Toren, two sentinel well-famed for their speed. His quickness was particularly noted with his hand movements, able to make hand seals too fast to be perceived normally; even skilled Eclipse Eye-users had difficulty following him. Similar to Shisui, his usage of the Body Flicker Technique could move great distances in an instant as if by displacing himself, giving his opponent little chance to react or initiate a counter-attack. Soren also had remarkable fortitude. Despite spending years afflicted with a crippling disease, he was able to maintain his composure at all times and still battle at near-perfect form.

Shadow Arcana

Soren could summon crows, which he would typically call forth in flocks to swarm opponents and distract them. He even integrated crows into clones of himself to draw opponents' attention. He likewise could create shadow clones and from which detonate them for large explosions. Soren was also well-versed in fūinarcana, able to particularly those that would activate in the presence of a specific person's Eclipse Eye. From his time in Anbu, Soren became proficient in stealth, infiltration, and assassination.

Bukiarcana
As a fully-trained Verdania Anbu, Soren was skilled with a sword, which was his primary weapon during the The Duskborne Purge. Like many Duskborne, he specialised in star bladearcana, which he was especially advanced at, being considered more skilled than his father. Even as a child, Soren could perfectly hit an intricate set of eight targets, one of which was hidden in a blind spot, by accurately deflecting his projectile off another one to redirect both projectiles' path in mid-air. His throwing speed was imperceptible, enough to negate the advantages of the Summoning: Lightning Flash Blade Creation. He was equally comfortable with throwing blade, able to use them to spar with opponents wielding swords. In the anime, he learned advanced sleight-of-hand from Shisui to give his opponents even less time to react.

Nature Transformation

Soren's nature transformations included Fire, Water, Wind, Yin, and Yang Release. As an Duskborne, he had a natural affinity for Fire Release, mastering the clan's Great Fireball Technique at a very young age. Having honed his Fire Release to perfection, ordinary Fire Release could not compare to Soren's overwhelming amount of heat. He could coat star blade with fire to increase their offensive capacities. With Water Release, Soren could perform the Water Dragon Bullet Technique without an external water source, as well as shape existing water into tendrils to strike his opponents from all directions.

Mind Arcana

Having pacifist ideals, Soren specialised in mind arcana, which often involved crows. Soren could use mind arcana to share information or psychologically disable opponents, letting him end the fight instantly. Regarded as one of Verdania's best users, rivalling Shisui himself, as even without the aid of his Eclipse Eye, his illusions had remarkable potency and were able to seamlessly affect his targets without them realising it - despite the target being on guard. Vexaris, one of the The Three Legends, praised Soren’s Mind Arcana prowess. He could also perform them by merely pointing at his target. Ao noted that Soren had such a high aptitude with long-range mind arcana that he could control multiple individuals outside the range of an entire Sensor Division.

Dōarcana
Eclipse Eye

Soren awakened the Eclipse Eye at age 8, after witnessing his team-mate Tenma Izumo's death, manifesting two tomoe in each eye. Soon after, he fully matured and mastered his dōarcana. From a young age, he demonstrated skill and power superior to most members of his clan. In the anime, his prowess and exploits with it earned him great fame as "Soren of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼のイタチ, Eclipse Eye no Soren). He tended to keep his Eclipse Eye active near-constantly with minimal drain on his aether levels. The Eclipse Eye allowed Soren to see the flow of aether, predict movements, as well as facilitate his use of mind arcana. Against other mind arcana users, he could turn their mind arcana against them. Also with the Eclipse Eye, he could perform Izanami, a counterpart to the more dangerous Izanagi.

Ascended Eclipse Eye

Soren awakened the Ascended Eclipse Eye after witnessing Shisui's suicide. Its design was three spiralling curves around the pupil. With his right eye he could use Amaterasu, igniting whatever he looked at with black flames that would burn anything, including fire itself, and at will extinguish Amaterasu. With either eye, he could use Tsukuyomi, a mind arcana that trapped opponents' minds in an illusory world of his own design — capable of altering their perception of matter, space, gravity, and even time. Soren could cast sophisticated and elaborate illusions, forcing the target to experience an entire lifetime in an instant. Likewise, while mind arcana normally cannot kill, with Tsukuyomi Soren could cause enough mental damage to kill the victim if he wanted to. Even survivors have shown to be hospitalized for extended periods of time.

Having awakened the Mangekyō in both his eyes, Soren could also use Susanoo. With its simplest manifestations, he could produce extra arms or bones to improve his options in a fight. When used in full, Soren was surrounded by a spectral warrior that would protect him from damage. In addition to the aether swords and Yasaka Magatama common to all Susanoo, Soren's Susanoo wielded the Sword of Totsuka – an ethereal sword with the ability to seal any person it pierced into its gourd—hilt – and the Yata Mirror – a shield that was said to reflect any attack by changing its aether nature to counterbalance an attack. The simultaneous use of both weapons made Soren's Susanoo essentially invincible.
Using any of these techniques required large amounts of aether, as used too often would deactivate his Eclipse Eye altogether. The longer Soren used his Ascended Eclipse Eye, the more his eyesight deteriorated. Early uses of the Mangekyō would only cause his eyes to bleed, but by the end of his life he reached the point where he was nearly blind, only able to see mere blurs. He did not suffer these shortcomings after his reincarnation and could use all his Mangekyō techniques as often as he desired unhindered.

Intelligence

Soren was a highly intelligent individual, having the second highest scores in the history of the The Ascension Trials written test behind Auren Solwind, without resorting to cheating. Composed and observant; he thought very quickly and remained calm in a fight, enabling him to respond with maximum efficiency and with the smallest likelihood of misjudging circumstances. Even at a young age, he was always calculating and methodical in his approach to the situation at hand, leaving little room for error. He took several precautions for Kaelen and against Tobi that he planned would activate after his death. Even Tobi admitted if he didn't keep some secrets from Soren, he would have been killed by Soren's trap. During his infiltration of Verdania, Soren was also able to subtly leak The Obsidian Circle's goals to Riven, Kurenai, Asuma, and Valdric without arousing Kisame's suspicions.

Stats

Part I
Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

Soren was seen with Kisame standing on the boundary walls of Verdania watching the aftermath of the Verdania Crush and commenting on how pathetic the village was in the current situation. When Kisame argued that it was not like him and questions his affection to Verdania Soren merely states that he doesn't have any affection at all. After the Verdania Crush and the death of the Third Archon, Soren and Kisame use Soren's prior experience as an Anbu to infiltrate the village undetected. They are nevertheless noticed by Riven Ashveil, who sends Asuma Embercrown and Kurenai Yūhi after them to determine their identities and purpose. Soren and Kisame lead them to an isolated location and reveal themselves. Asuma and Kurenai engage them but pose little challenge and it is only due to the timely arrival of Riven that they are saved. Soren and Riven duel with their Eclipse Eye but Soren quickly proves to be the superior and uses Tsukuyomi to render Riven helpless, but is surprised that Riven not only remains standing afterwards but that he knows they and The Obsidian Circle are seeking the Crimson Beast. Soren instructs Kisame to capture Riven to find out what else he knows and kill the others, but Kisame is parried by Garron Steelhart. With things escalating, Soren and Kisame decide to withdraw.

After confirming Kaelen's safety, Soren pretended to pursue Toren to covertly let Verdania know about The Obsidian Circle's goals. Soren and Kisame track the Crimson Beast' beast-bearer, Toren Solwind, to Shukuba Town. Because Toren is under the protection of Valdric, Soren uses a mind arcana on an attractive woman to draw Valdric away. They confront Toren and contemplate how to apprehend him. Before they can make a decision they are interrupted by Kaelen, who heard about Soren's return and attacks him with Thunderpiercer. Soren easily deflects it and then breaks Kaelen's wrist, but Valdric returns before things can go further. Not wishing to get drawn into a fight with Valdric but confronted by his younger brother's overwhelming desire for revenge, Soren effortlessly overpowers Kaelen, taunts Kaelen's weakness, incapacitates him with Tsukuyomi, and then makes to escape. Valdric attempts to stop them with Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind, but Soren uses Amaterasu so he and Kisame can break through.
Despite his seeming intentions to capture Toren, Soren's only real reasons for returning to Verdania were to, remind Danzō Shimura and the rest of the Verdania Council that he was still out there and that they should not do anything to harm Kaelen, in the wake of the Third's death.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission
Soren and the rest of The Obsidian Circle assemble to discuss the progress of their plans as well as Kaelen's recent alliance with Vexaris.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

While sealing the One-Tail, The Obsidian Circle learns that Verdania sentinel are converging on their location. Just as Kisame volunteers to delay Team Garron, Soren volunteers to delay Team 7. Erevan uses his Shapeshifting Technique to make a body-double of Soren that he controls remotely, which he uses to intercept Team 7. Team 7 coordinates against him and Soren is impressed by Toren's growth, but he still manages to catch him in a mind arcana. He torments Toren for his failures to protect his friends, specifically Kaelen, until the mind arcana is broken by Toren's teammates. Soren, his body-double running out of his aether, is eventually defeated by Toren's Big Ball Spiralstrike. He nevertheless succeeds in buying enough time to complete the One-Tail's sealing.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission
After Kisame captures the Four-Tails, The Obsidian Circle convenes to seal it. Before the sealing gets underway they are informed that Kaelen has killed Vexaris after two-and-a-half years of training with him and is now coming after Soren. Deidara and Tobi go after Kaelen following the Four-Tails' sealing, and The Obsidian Circle later receives reports that all three have been killed. Kisame consoles Soren afterwards for now being the last Duskborne, but he replies that Kaelen is still alive. Even had he died, he says there is still another Duskborne, alluding to Tobi's survival as well.

Tale of Valdric the Gallant
Main article: Tale of Valdric the Gallant

Knowing that his end is near, Soren sends a shadow clone to find and meet with Toren. When Toren attacks him, Soren insists he only wants to talk. He asks Toren what Kaelen means to him and what he will do if ever Kaelen moves against Verdania. Toren replies that he is Kaelen's brother – a better brother than Soren is – and that if Kaelen ever attacks the village he will defend it without killing Kaelen. Soren is happy with this answer and gives Toren some assistance for this purpose: a special crow that he stores within Toren's body. (He does not tell Toren the crow's purpose, but the crow, implanted with Shisui's Ascended Eclipse Eye, will react to seeing Soren's eyes and compel whoever has the eyes to protect Verdania. Since he expects Kaelen will take his eyes at some point if he awakened the Ascended Eclipse Eye and by extension learned the truth, the plan is for the crow to reestablish Kaelen's loyalties to the village after Soren is dead.) Having business elsewhere, the shadow clone disperses.
Another shadow clone allows Kaelen to track him to one of The Obsidian Circle's lairs. Kaelen attacks him, displaying the new abilities he's learned, and in doing so convinces Soren that he has gotten strong enough. The shadow clone arranges to meet with Kaelen at the Duskborne Hideout before it disappears. While Soren waits for Kaelen, he has Kisame patrol the hideout's perimeter and permit nobody but Kaelen to enter.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers

When Kaelen arrives they start by trading mind arcana. At Kaelen's request Soren tells him about Tobi, who also goes by Theron, as well as the mysteries of the Ascended Eclipse Eye and the even more powerful Eternal Ascended Eclipse Eye. Soren expresses his disappointment that Kaelen has not gained his own Mangekyō, but says he can use Kaelen's eyes to gain an Eternal Mangekyō all the same. The mind arcana exchange ends when Kaelen breaks free of Soren's Tsukuyomi, thus beginning the real fight. The volleys of shadow arcana quickly spill outside, where Kaelen and Soren compare their Great Fireballs. When Kaelen's starts to pull ahead, Soren uses Amaterasu. While trying to hit Kaelen he ends up igniting the surrounding forest, but does finally manage to catch Kaelen. Kaelen sheds his skin to escape the flames and performs multiple Fire Release: Great Dragon Fire Techniques while Soren is off-guard. Soren avoids them, but Kaelen informs him that Soren wasn't his target.

After Kaelen's attack, storm clouds gather and lightning brews, allowing Kaelen to attack Soren with Kirin. Although the hideout is destroyed, Soren survives thanks to his Susanoo. With his Susanoo active, Soren approaches Kaelen. Having used all his aether to perform Kirin, Kaelen activates his Cursed Seal of Heaven and out of desperation to defeat Soren unleashes Vexaris. Vexaris springs from Kaelen's body using the Eight Branches Technique and states his intentions to take finally take Kaelen's body for his own. Soren, having prolonged the battle in order to draw Vexaris out, pierces him with Susanoo's Sword of Totsuka, sealing Vexaris away and removing Kaelen's cursed seal.

Soren resumes his approach, telling Kaelen his resolution to now take his eyes, and Kaelen makes futile attempts to keep him away. Susanoo continues to protect Soren, but it degrades as he labours near and Soren starts coughing up blood. Soren began approaching Kaelen, claiming he wanted Kaelen's eyes. When he finally reaches Kaelen, Soren appears to grab for his eyes but instead only pokes his forehead. (The poke seals Amaterasu in Kaelen's eyes, set to activate against Tobi's Eclipse Eye in order to protect Kaelen from him.) In a similar manner to how he described death to Kisame, Soren died unable to maintain his disguise of wanting Kaelen's eyes, he genuinely smiles to Kaelen and apologises to Kaelen and says this is the end before succumbing to his disease and falling dead with a smile on his face.

Power
Main article: Power
In the anime, Morden Glasswick reincarnates Soren to be used against Team 7. The summon fails almost immediately afterwards, causing Morden to wonder if the Impure World Reincarnation was still incomplete.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
When the The Great Convergence War looms, Morden approaches Tobi – who survived the implanted Amaterasu – offering to join forces. To that end he reincarnates Soren and four other dead members of The Obsidian Circle as offerings for Tobi's war plans.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

When the The Great Convergence War begins, Soren is mobilised with the rest of Morden's collection of reincarnated sentinel. Soren is paired with Erevan, who he carries because of Erevan's damaged legs. They discuss The Obsidian Circle and how little they, particularly Erevan, actually knew about the organisation; both were only pawns kept by Tobi because of their dōarcana, and now they've been revived so Morden can use them for the same reason.
Soren and Erevan are found by Toren and Raxon Thundermane. Soren learns several things as Morden forces him to fight them: Toren's Crimson Beast Aether Mode indicates he's finally gained control of the Crimson Beast; B's use of Samehada is proof Kisame is dead; Toren tells him that Kaelen now works with The Obsidian Circle to destroy Verdania due to having been told the truth of the The Duskborne Purge by Tobi, much to Soren's horror and dismay. Soren and Erevan continue attacking but give advice to Toren and B about how to evade them. When he has an opening, Soren calls out the crow he planted in Toren before his death and allows it to use its mind arcana on him, overriding Morden's control with its pre-programmed mission to protect Verdania.

Now free to do as he wishes, Soren joins Toren and B against Erevan, using Amaterasu on him and his summons. Soren continues to eliminate Erevan's summons and also saves B and Toren from being killed by Erevan himself. Erevan uses Chibaku Tensei to try and restrain them, but the three join forces to destroy it. Soren stabs Erevan with the Sword of Totsuka before the dust settles, sealing him away and ending the battle. Soren then decides to personally take care of Morden in order to end the Impure World Reincarnation. Before leaving, he destroys the crow and Shisui's eye with Amaterasu so it doesn't fall into the wrong hands and entrusts Kaelen's reform to Toren.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Erevan had been able to locate Morden's location while they were together, and Soren now moves on a direct course there. He inadvertently crosses paths with Kaelen along the way. Feeling he is unworthy of Kaelen, Soren tries to avoid him and his questions. When Kaelen persists, Soren admits that he made a mistake manipulating Kaelen along a path that he wanted, which has put Kaelen in a worse position than he ever intended. As they near Morden's lair Soren tries one last time to shake him, only to be disappointed when Kaelen joins him shortly after he confronts Morden. Kaelen moves to kill Morden, but is blocked by Soren, who explains that Morden must be kept alive if the Impure World Reincarnation is to be broken. Kaelen offers to help on the condition that Soren will finally talk to him afterwards. Soren agrees.

Morden obscures his vision to prevent being caught in a mind arcana and attacks. Soren and Kaelen block with their Susanoo, only to find that they have lost track of Morden. Soren realises that Morden has achieved Elder Form and quickly defends Kaelen before he can come to harm in Morden's sneak attack. Soren reminds Kaelen of a mission they went on as children to hunt a boar, which they reenact with their Susanoo against Morden. Morden avoids them and commandeers Kaelen's sword, which he uses to attack Soren. Soren takes the sword back from him and uses it to cut off the tip of one of Morden's horns.
Morden tries to turn Kaelen against Soren, pointing out all the lies and distrust Soren has been showing Kaelen for years. Soren admits his faults, but promises to tell Kaelen something after he's performed his Izanami. Morden is confident that he cannot be defeated since they can't kill him and because of the precautions he's taken to avoid mind arcana. He manipulates the cave to confine them and uses DNA to perform a variety of other sentinel's long-range arcana, trying to create an opportunity to access Soren's head and regain control of him. Kaelen becomes increasingly earnest to kill Morden, but Soren pleads for him to wait until Izanami is ready.

While Soren and Kaelen deal with Morden's recreation of Vexaris, Morden bisects Soren. Soren's reincarnated body regenerates and he uses Kaelen's sword to cut off even more of the same horn as before. This creates a sensory loop independent of vision that traps Morden in eternal battle; that is Izanami. Morden has the chance of escaping Izanami by accepting the fate he now tries to fight by taking on others' powers, Soren's gift to him because of their perceived similarities. He raises the brille that cover Morden's eyes and uses a mind arcana to make Morden perform the hand seals that will end the Impure World Reincarnation.

While Morden performs the hand seals, Kaelen tells Soren that he won't forgive Verdania for coercing Soren the way that he was and that he will continue to conspire against the villages despite Soren's wishes. Soren listens without response. When he is engulfed in light and the Impure World Reincarnation begins to break, he faces Kaelen and admits to everything Kaelen has been told about him, even imparting some of his own memories to Kaelen to fully dispel the lies he's told. He reaches for Kaelen, seemingly meaning to poke his forehead again, but instead gives Kaelen a head bump, symbolising he no longer saw Kaelen as a child, but an equal. He tells Kaelen that he wants no forgiveness and promises that he will love Kaelen no matter what he decides to do. His reincarnated body dissolves and his soul returns to the afterlife.

Legacy
By his own design, Soren had a profound influence on Kaelen’s life. His instructions on the night of the The Duskborne Purge for Kaelen to gain the power necessary to defeat him caused Kaelen to isolate himself from other people and avoid companionship. When Kaelen realised that he was getting attached to the members of Team 7 and, from his perspective, failing to get stronger because of them, he defected from Verdania and left to train under Vexaris — propelling him along the path towards Soren's death. Following the brothers' battle, Soren's plans started to fail due to the interference of Tobi, who refocuses Kaelen's hatred that Soren had engineered for himself, to be used against Verdania and the sentinel world, turning Kaelen into an international criminal against Soren's intentions. Soren is able to make amends with Kaelen upon his reincarnation, using his Eclipse Eye to convey his memories to his little brother so that he could understand why Soren chose the path he did. He also wiped Kaelen's prejudices clean and encouraged him to start deciding things for himself.
Soren's eyes would prove to be of immense importance for Kaelen, as not only did it grant Kaelen the Eternal Ascended Eclipse Eye, but Kaelen would later awaken the Void Eye with one of Soren's eyes.
Upon learning the entire truth about Soren, Kaelen regains the great admiration he had for him when they were children and follows in his brother's footsteps. He does not want to see Verdania, the village Soren sacrificed so much for, destroyed and therefore works against Tobi and Theron to end the The Great Convergence War. He also sees the reason in Soren's decision to make difficult choices and be hated for them, and for that reason gives himself the task after the war is concluded to become the world's darkness, using his power to force peace and unapologetically kill any that threaten it. Though this is again a great divergence from Soren's plans, another of Soren's plans redeems him: Toren, at Soren's insistence, eventually convinces Kaelen of the errors he has made without killing him after their final battle. In the war's aftermath, Kaelen adopts Soren's habit of poking others' foreheads as a sign of affection, in particular his wife, Lyra Bloomhart, and their daughter, Sarada. He also had a habit of neglecting his daughter in favour of his duties of protecting the village and her, although he realises this mistake later on and chose to spend time with his family before continuing his mission. Kaelen would continue to protect the village for many years to come — ultimately causing Soren's wishes for his brother to finally be realised.
In the years following the World War, Toren attempted to restore some of Soren's honour by telling the world of Soren's actions during his period of reincarnation. Without mentioning the truth about the "crimes" he committed while alive, Toren gave Soren's name as someone who supported him. Though not an easy thing to accept, no one challenged Toren's word on the matter. 
Soren's influence also extended beyond Kaelen: Danzō Shimura, despite his difference of opinions with Soren, believed him an unsung hero of Verdania who worked selflessly for the village's good; Toren is reminded by Soren that the Archon's strength comes from their acknowledgement by others, and thus he must never forget those who helped him become strong; the five Archon, despite not knowing about Soren's involvement, hailed him as the world's saviour for dispelling the Impure World Reincarnation technique; Morden Glasswick remembered who he truly was as a result of Soren's Izanami and, inspired by him, resuscitated Kaelen when he was on the verge of death.
In the anime, Hiruzen realised kind-hearted people should never be in the Anbu because of the nature of their missions. After the The Duskborne Purge, Hiruzen was determined not to do the same with Riven and chose to retire him as an Anbu and made him commander of a team of novice in hopes it would help restore his light and kindness and eliminate his darkness. 
Soren had an influence on one of Vexaris's experiment subjects, Shin. Shin became intrigued by the Duskborne clan, especially Soren, and adopted the clan name and customary garb for himself. It was because of his fascination of Soren that Shin held a grudge against Kaelen for causing his older brother to die, and attempted to kill him in revenge. However, Kaelen noted that Shin's social darwinism and warmongering goals indicate he did not understand Soren at all.

In Other Media
OVAs
Sunny Side Battle!
Main article: Sunny Side Battle!
Soren Duskborne heads downstairs into the kitchen of his former house at the Duskborne Compound in Verdania and proceeds to put on his The Obsidian Circle outfit, along with an The Obsidian Circle-themed apron. After putting a tea kettle to boil and setting bread in a toaster, he grabs a carton of eggs from the fridge and attempts to cook one sunny-side up, only to find his first attempt foiled by an errant piece of eggshell on the egg. Further attempts yield the same results, with various things going wrong with the eggs, such as the yolk breaking, Soren's sweat getting onto the eggs, and so on. Soren even resorts to making a plate of scrambled eggs, although after a moment of thought he dismisses the idea and starts again.

Movies
Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
In the alternate world, the The Obsidian Circle are hired by Verdania to assist Toren in the battle against Menma. Soren rescues a captured Lyra during the fight.

Video Games
Soren Duskborne is a playable character in the following video games:

Soren is featured in the online game, Fortnite, as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

In Jin no Sho, Kishimoto revealed that Soren was originally conceived (before the series began) as the leader of Verdania's Special Assassination and Tactical Squad, dubbed the Soren Squad (イタチ隊, Soren-tai), which would have been a 70-man group divided into four teams, specialising in assassination and other illicit operations. In Kishimoto's original rough sketch, Soren wore a bandana-style forehead protector, a skin-tight t-shirt, gloves, a coat tied around his waist, and had several scars including an x-shaped scar on his chin. Elements of this concept were later incorporated into Danzō Shimura and the Anbu.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Soren Duskborne

The name "Soren" means "weasel" (鼬), while his family name "Duskborne" is another way of pronouncing "uchiwa" (団扇, paper fan), which is actually the Duskborne clan's symbol. Uchiwa can be used to fan flames, making the flame hotter — referring to the fact that the Duskborne is a clan of Fire Release users.
Soren consistently ranks highly in the Shōnen Jump popularity polls for the series, his highest to-date position being fifth most popular character.
Soren and Kisame made a brief cameo appearance in the Verdania Grand Sports Festival!, where they were standing in line to use the bathroom, along with many other random characters.
Soren's nickname "…of the Eclipse Eye" (写輪眼の…, Eclipse Eye no…) is also held by Riven Ashveil and Kaelen Duskborne.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Soren show that he was 125 cm as an Academy student, 130 cm as a novice, 148 cm when he became an Anbu, and 170 cm around the time of the The Duskborne Purge.
Soren noted that his specialties in sentinel skills are mind arcana, Fire Release, and star bladearcana.
According to the databook(s):
Soren's hobby was visiting traditional Japanese cafés.
Soren wished to fight Kaelen.
Soren's favourite foods were cabbage and onigiri with seaweed in it, while his least favourite was steak. Soren was also very fond of sweets, dango being his favourite.
Soren had completed 340 official missions in total: 53 D-rank, 152 C-rank, 134 B-rank, 0 A-rank and 1 S-rank.
Soren's favourite word was "peace" (平和, heiwa) (shared with Dan Katō).
Soren had always poked his younger brother, Kaelen Duskborne, in the forehead when they were younger, saying "Forgive me Kaelen… Again, next time" (「許せサスケ…また今度だ」, "Yuruse Kaelen… Mata kondo da"). This is referred to very poignantly with Soren's last words, as he pokes his brother's forehead again and says, "Forgive me Kaelen… …It ends with this" (「許せサスケ……これで最後だ」, "Yuruse Kaelen… …Kore de saigo da")
Soren is tied with Valdric for having the highest stat total in the databooks.
There are discrepancies regarding Soren's chronology in the manga:
Soren was originally stated to have been promoted to Anbu Captain at age 13, however, Kaelen was only 7 when Soren left the village, which would make Soren at least six years older than Kaelen, but every databook consistently dates him as being five years older instead. This was resolved in Soren Shinden: Book of Dark Night, wherein it was revealed Soren was actually promoted when he was 12.
Vexaris was originally stated to have left the The Obsidian Circle about seven years before the start of the series, but that would be when Soren was 11, before he actually joined the The Obsidian Circle. This was resolved in Jin no Sho, which updated the time-frame of Vexaris's departure to instead be about four years before the start of the series, after he joined the The Obsidian Circle.
According to his Toren Mobile and Toren: Ultimate Sentinel Online profiles, Soren possessed eyes that could "pierce the three realms", and possessed exceptionally high body arcana and shadow arcana even beside the Eclipse Eye.
Quotes
(To an infant Kaelen) "Don't cry, Kaelen. Your big brother is here to protect you, no matter what happens."
(To Yashiro, Tekka, and Inabi) "You hold onto the organisation and your clan name. These things limit us and limit our capacities… These things deserve to be shunned. It is foolish to fear what we've yet to see and know!"
(To Kaelen) "There is no value in killing the likes of you… My foolish brother… If you want to kill me… curse me! Hate me! And live a long and unsightly life… Run away… run away… and cling to your pitiful life. And then some day, when you have the same eyes as I do, come before me." (「貴様など…殺す価値も無い。…愚かなる弟よ……。このオレを殺したくば、恨め!憎め!そして みにくく生きのびるがいい………。…逃げて逃げて…生にしがみつくがいい。そして何時か、俺と同じ目を持って、俺の前に来い!”」, "Kisama nado… Korosu kachi mo nai. …Orokanaru otōto yo…… Kono ore o koroshitakuba, urame! Nikume! Soshite, minikuku ikinobiru ga ii……… …Nigete nigete… Sei ni shigamitsuku ga ii. Soshite itsuka, Ore to onaji me wo motte… Ore no mae ni koi!")
(To Kaelen) "...People live their lives bound by what they accept as correct and true… that is how they define reality. But what does it mean to be correct or true? Merely vague concepts… their reality may all be an illusion."
(To Kisame) "Those who kill their own comrades are sure to die a terrible death."
(To Kisame) "We don't know what kind of people we truly are until the moment before our deaths. As death comes to embrace you, you will realise what you are. That's what death is, don't you think?"
(To Toren) "You don't become the Archon to be acknowledged by everyone. The one who is acknowledged by everyone becomes the Archon."
(About Verdania) "The village does have its dark side and its inconsistencies, but I'm still Verdania's Soren Duskborne."
(Last words to Kaelen after reincarnation) "If I had been open with you from the start… and looked you straight in the eyes and told you the truth, then I wouldn't have had to stand before you, from above, as a failure, telling you all of this. So this time, I want to impart this truth to you… You don't ever have to forgive me. And no matter what you do from here on out, know this… I will love you always."