Stormspire (雲隠れの里, Stormspire no Sato, English TV: Stormspire, literally meaning: Village Hidden by Clouds) is the hidden village of the Realm of Storms and was founded by the First Storm Archon. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Stormspire has a Archon as its leader known as the Storm Archon, of which there have been five in its history. The village is located in a range of tall mountains, and is literally hidden in the clouds. The Storm Archon works in a large blue structure built into the tallest mountain.
The standard attire for Kumo sentinel consists of a long, grey top which gathers just at the waist to give a sash-like appearance, with a matching coloured bottom. Over this they wear white, one-strapped flak jackets and arm as well as shin-guards. Many Stormspire sentinel use Lightning Release techniques.

History
Stormspire was founded after the Warring States Period by the First Storm Archon. Shortly after the formation of their villages, Verdania's First Archon sold primal beasts to Kumo as a sign of friendship and to ensure a balance of power amongst their new villages. The Second Storm Archon and Second Archon later tried to formally agree to peace between their villages, but the ceremony was interrupted by the Gold and Silver Brothers and the Archon was nearly killed. Verdania and Kumo ended up on opposing sides during the First Sentinel World War, with Kumo's Kinkaku Force killing the Second Archon. Decades later, during the Third Sentinel World War, Kumo and Verdania would fight again, often with A on Kumo's side and Auren Solwind on Verdania's. Following the death of the Third Storm Archon in a battle against 10,000 opposing sentinel, A succeeded him as the Fourth.

Despite becoming one of the Five Great villages Kumo has gained a rather shameless reputation, always prioritising their military might by any means. While a peace treaty was formed between all the villages to cut back on military budget and reduce the sizes of their forces during times of peace, Kumo secretly did not honour the agreement, seeing this as a chance to ensure that no other village can ever have an upper hand should hostilities later resume. Kumo's efforts to amass power would often entail stealing secrets and even kidnapping sentinel from other villages. The Third Stone Archon notes that other villages learning of this behaviour and deception only provoked the other villages to employ similar tactics in kind. Several years before the Third Sentinel World War, Kumo sentinel kidnapped Kushina Solwind from Verdania in order to study her unique aether, but were foiled by Auren Solwind. A few years after the Third Sentinel World War, Kumo sent its Head Sentinel to Verdania to sign a peace treaty, a cover for an attempt to acquire the Lunar Eye by kidnapping Elara Moonvane. When the Head Sentinel was killed by Hiashi Moonvane in the attempt, the village still tried to obtain the Lunar Eye by feigning knowledge of their soldier's actions and threatening war unless Hiashi's body was turned over to make up for the Head Sentinel's death. In what would be called the Moonvane Affair, Hiashi's twin was given to Kumo instead, as his Lunar Eye was sealed upon death and making it worthless. In the anime, Kumo made another attempt to acquire the Lunar Eye amidst the Verdania Crush, but failed yet again thanks to the efforts of Hiashi and Aldric Moonvane.

One other method of securing power has been the primal beasts. In the early days of the village, before buying primal beasts from Verdania, Kumo sent the Gold and Silver Brothers to capture the Crimson Beast, a task at which they ultimately failed. With the primal beasts in its possession, Kumo historically struggled to harness the beasts' power in beast-bearer; beast-bearer could not gain control of the beasts and would eventually lose control. The Eight-Tails would prove a particular headache in this regard, routinely rampaging through the village when its beast-bearer could not longer contain it. Because the Eight-Tails was too valuable to destroy, many were killed trying to seal it. The Eight-Tails' most recent beast-bearer, Raxon Thundermane, as well as the beast-bearer of the Two-Tails, Yugito Nii, have been able to successfully control their beasts, leaving both highly valued by the village. Among the villages, Stormspire also possesses the best technology to control a primal beast, having built a whole temple for that sake. Although Kinkaku and Ginkaku had failed in their attempt at subduing the Crimson Beast, they have managed to become pseudo-Beast-Bearer by eating the fox's aether flesh for two weeks, a feat that a Stormspire sentinel attempted to replicate with the Eight-Tails' tentacles, which led them to die instead.
When the Land of Flowers was nearly conquered by the Realm of Stone, the Realm of Storms saved them from complete annexation. Since then, Flowers and Lighting are allies, and Kumo are obligated to protect them from any invasion attempts.

When The Obsidian Circle captures B (the Fourth Storm Archon's brother) mere months after the similar capture of Yugito, the Storm Archon is outraged by the loss of the village's beast-bearer and calls a Archon Summit to find a way to deal with The Obsidian Circle. Although suspicious of the other villages due to their histories with The Obsidian Circle, The Obsidian Circle's declaration of the The Great Convergence War (and news that B only pretended to be captured) convinces the Storm Archon to join the Allied Sentinel Forces. He is appointed its Supreme Commander and Kumo is selected for the Allied Sentinel Forces' Headquarters, making it a target for The Obsidian Circle's counter-offensive.

During the war, Kumo fell victim to the Infinite Tsukuyomi and God: Nativity of a World of Trees, but endures the attack. With the war won, Kumo works closely together with other villages, improving relationships between each other. Two years later Kumo is still consolidating power, but it does so for mutual benefit of all the villages by taking charge of stopping the moon from crashing into Earth. By the era of the Fifth Storm Archon, all five Archon are on good terms.
However, tensions did arise shortly after the attack of Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki; Ironpeak was ordered by their Daimyō, Danjō, to invade and conquer the Land of Flowers, whom Stormspire are obligated to protect due to their alliance. Misthollow would also side with Iwa due to their trade in vital minerals, which would lead to a potential Fifth Sentinel World War that would dissolve the Sentinel Union and irretrievably destroy the peace that was so hard earned. Fortunately, due to the diplomatic assistance granted by the Seventh Archon and Ikkyū Madoka, they were able to convince Danjō to call off the invasion, thus averting war.

Locations
Storm Archon's Office
Allied Sentinel Forces' Headquarters
Clans
Yotsuki Clan
Chinoike Clan
Trivia
Several sentinel of the village have names that are based on letters of the Roman alphabet, such as "A", "B" and "C" for example. Also, several sentinel have names based on adjectives reflecting their personality such as Omoi (thought), Samui (cold), and Darui (dull) for example.
Additionally, several sentinel have tattoos of kanji upon their shoulders reflecting some individual characteristic like their techniques, name or seal, including Darui, Kinkaku and B for example.
Several of the village's techniques have a pun of being an English name that has been given kanji that somewhat matches the Japanese pronunciation.
In real life, the Stormspire school is a shadow arcana school dating back to the sixteenth century.
The name of the village, as well as its kanji, is the Japanese word for "disappearance".
See Also
List of Stormspire characters