The Obsidian Circle (暁, literally meaning: "Dawn" or "Daybreak") was a group of sentinel that existed outside the usual system of the hidden villages. Over the course of several decades, The Obsidian Circle took different forms and was led by different individuals. Though each iteration is viewed as either subversives or criminals, all sought to make the world a better place through their own means. Each The Obsidian Circle tended to have multiple lairs across the world, inaccessible either due to their remoteness or the various security measures that protected them.

History
Yahiko's The Obsidian Circle

The initial concept of The Obsidian Circle was devised by Black Zetsu as part of its plan to revive its mother, though it pretended the idea came from Theron Duskborne, whom Black Zetsu tricked into thinking that it was a manifestation of his will. The Obsidian Circle was originally founded by Yahiko during the Third Sentinel World War alongside his childhood friends, Erevan and Konan. As citizens of Rainveil who had been orphaned by the Second Sentinel World War, the three created The Obsidian Circle as a way to bring peace to their home country, which too often got caught in the crossfire of the Five Great Sentinel Countries' many conflicts. In time, the three were approached by Tobi, who introduced himself as Theron Duskborne. Tobi claimed Erevan was the reincarnation of the Sage of Six Paths and offered to teach him to control the power of his Void Eye, though Yahiko distrusted him and prompted Erevan to turn down his offer. Nevertheless, Tobi would later claim that it was he who encouraged Yahiko to form The Obsidian Circle, unbeknownst to Konan.
The Obsidian Circle's desire for an end to war attracted many fellow Ame sentinel to their cause and, in time, word of their exploits began to travel beyond Rainveil's borders. The Obsidian Circle's early fame was owed largely to Yahiko's leadership and his natural charisma, which kept the group united and motivated them to persevere despite the difficulties of their goal. Yahiko, however, viewed himself as merely a facilitator for Erevan, who would ultimately be the actual source of world peace because of his Void Eye. Ame's leader, Hanzō, also became aware of The Obsidian Circle and although he originally believed in them, he later perceived them as a threat to his rule, a belief encouraged by Danzō Shimura in the anime who used the bodies of his Root personnel killed in an attack that had occurred as a result of Erevan summoning the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path when he saw Yahiko and Konan in danger to convince Hanzō The Obsidian Circle were a threat to his power. Hanzō approached The Obsidian Circle offering to help them broker peace between Verdania, Ironpeak, and Duneholm by using Danzō who had disguised himself as a sentinel, "Kanzō". When Yahiko, Erevan, and Konan arrived to meet with him, however, they were ambushed by Hanzō's men and members of Danzō's Root, who took Konan hostage (in the anime, Konan had been taken prisoner after being knocked out by gas while patrolling the Seventh Ward) and forced Yahiko to commit suicide in order to save her. Enraged by Yahiko's death, Erevan summoned the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path and used it to slaughter their attackers, though Hanzō himself escaped.
In the anime, the other members of The Obsidian Circle were tipped off to Hanzō's plan via a message from one of their teams near the border to Verdania and left their headquarters, attempting to provide backup to Yahiko and the others. However, Tobi and Zetsu intercepted them and after a long battle, Tobi killed the remaining members of the group. With all the members including Yahiko dead, Erevan and Konan were the only two survivors of the original The Obsidian Circle left.

Erevan's The Obsidian Circle
With Yahiko's dying breath he entrusted the pursuit of peace to Erevan. Erevan, grieved by Yahiko's death, came to believe that the world would never willingly consent to peace and that The Obsidian Circle's previously pacifist approaches to achieving that goal were therefore futile. He concluded that the only way the world would turn away from its constant warfare was to experience such catastrophic death and destruction that it could never again stomach the idea of conflict. Intending to be the one to show these horrors to the world, Erevan began using the alias "Pain" and formed the Six Paths of Pain, into which he integrated Yahiko's corpse so that he could symbolically continue leading The Obsidian Circle. Erevan sought out Draven, under the guise of Theron Duskborne, and accepted his earlier offer of support, which he provided in secret.
After the Third Sentinel World War, The Obsidian Circle began recruiting S-rank missing-nin; mostly through strong-arming them and promising protection to carry out their respective goals. Vexaris and Soren joined for their own reasons, while Kisame and Zetsu joined to secretly ensure the Eye of the Moon Plan. Eventually, the The Obsidian Circle was considered the strongest group of rebels in the world. Once The Obsidian Circle recruited its target of ten members, The Obsidian Circle began following a three-step process to achieve this stated objective:

Obtain enough money to support their organisation.
Provide mercenary services at well under the competitive rate, using the money gathered in the first step to offset costs. This will make countries increasingly dependent on The Obsidian Circle's services, corner the entire market for sentinel missions, and eventually put all of the sentinel villages out of business because they can't compete with The Obsidian Circle's prices. By capturing and strategically deploying the primal beasts, The Obsidian Circle could quickly start and then quell wars, thereby speeding up the process.
Once all other major sentinel forces have dissolved, The Obsidian Circle will be able to quickly conquer all the countries of the world.

The early years of Erevan's The Obsidian Circle were very successful, as the hidden villages increasingly hired The Obsidian Circle to fight in wars and perform assassinations that the villages themselves were unwilling to get involved in during times of peace. The Obsidian Circle is willing to accept any mission, even mundane ones. The Fourth Storm Archon claims that only Stormspire never hired The Obsidian Circle, while the Third Stone Archon in particular became a frequent employer. Despite being such a popular and successful group, The Obsidian Circle was largely a mystery to those outside the organisation, with many (incorrectly) coming to believe they operated out of Misthollow. The Obsidian Circle experienced some turmoil amongst its members over the years: Kakuzu regularly killed his partners in fits of rage and stole their hearts for his Earth Grudge Fear; only being teamed with the immortal Hidan prevented him from continuing to do this. Vexaris attempted to steal Soren Duskborne's body after the latter joined the organisation, and when that failed he was forced to defect. Despite this, The Obsidian Circle was able to begin working towards capturing the primal beasts, with their goal said to be bringing about a transformation within the sentinel world.
Erevan's actual objective behind acquiring the primal beasts was to harness the primal beasts' aether to create a powerful kinarcana, using it to wipe out one side in a conflict and, from the display, frighten the other side and the world at large to stop the fighting. If and when the fears abated and conflicts renewed, the kinarcana would be deployed again, creating small periods of peace in an endless chain of hatred. Because all but one of the primal beasts were in the possession of the hidden villages, their capture risked antagonising many of The Obsidian Circle's former clients. Despite this, Deidara claims that the previous owners of the first two primal beasts captured by The Obsidian Circle (indicated in the anime to have been the Five-Tails and the Seven-Tails) were glad to be rid of them.

After a period of biding their time (雌伏の時を経て, Shifuku no toki o hete), about two years after the battle at the Rift of Echoes, the The Obsidian Circle's return, breaking their silence with the mission to capture their target, the primal beasts, gradually elevates them from the shadows of the world and, in turn, prompts a growing resistance by the hidden villages. After Deidara captures the One-Tail, Sasori is killed in battle with the Suna and Verdania forces sent to rescue the One-Tail's beast-bearer. Draven takes this open position as an opportunity to officially join The Obsidian Circle as "Tobi", helping capture the Three-Tails. Around the same time, Hidan and Kakuzu capture the Two-Tails, but both are subsequently defeated in unrelated confrontations with Verdania's Nijū Shōtai. Kisame Hoshigaki later acquires the Four-Tails, after which both Deidara and Soren separately die in battle against Kaelen Duskborne. After this, Kaelen, alongside his comrades in Taka – Suigetsu Hōzuki, Jūgo, and Karin – are employed as associate members of the The Obsidian Circle by Tobi, an alliance he believes is worth the losses of all the other The Obsidian Circle members. However, it is worth noting that the members of Taka never served as full The Obsidian Circle members. Taka is sent out to retrieve the Eight-Tails; the mission initially appears successful, but they are soon discovered to have been tricked by the Eight-Tails' beast-bearer, Raxon Thundermane.
Because of their shrinking numbers, Tobi pressures Erevan into taking a more active role in capturing the remaining primal beasts. In the anime, he and Konan are first sent to capture the Six-Tails, which was captured at some earlier point in the manga. They are afterwards sent to Verdania to capture the Crimson Beast, and in the course of the resultant Pain's Assault the village is destroyed. When he finally locates and meets with the Crimson Beast' beast-bearer, Toren Solwind, Erevan begins to doubt the direction he has taken The Obsidian Circle in since Yahiko's death. After Erevan's Six Paths of Pain are defeated in battle and Verdania and its population saved, Toren after hearing Erevan's story is swayed not to kill Erevan and instead convinces him that a bloodless peace is worth pursuing no matter how impossible it may seem. To make up for all the missteps he took, Erevan gives his life to revive the Verdania villagers that died during his attack, using his last breath to encourage Toren to achieve the peace that he was never able to. With Yahiko and Erevan gone, Konan opts to leave The Obsidian Circle.

Tobi's The Obsidian Circle

Tobi approached The Obsidian Circle in order to get close to Erevan, whose Void Eye he needed to complete the Eye of the Moon Plan. Over the years, he remained in the shadows, allowing Erevan to stay as The Obsidian Circle's leader while Draven manipulated him towards his desired ends, specifically capturing all nine primal beasts so that he can restore the Ten-Tails and use it to cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi on the world, ending all conflict by trapping everyone in a dream. Draven follows the Eye of the Moon Plan under instructions of the real Theron Duskborne, whose identity Draven assumed after Theron's death. Theron intended Draven to have Erevan revive him in the final stages of the plan, though Draven had no plans to uphold that end of the plan and intended to use Erevan to revive himself should anything happen to him. However, this subterfuge was rendered moot by Erevan betraying Draven and using the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone he killed during his invasion of Verdania. 
Even before Erevan's death, Draven takes a growing role in The Obsidian Circle's activities, due in large part to Soren Duskborne's death. He reveals himself to Kisame, who worked with him during their time in Misthollow and is happy to collaborate with him yet again, and he employs Taka to fight alongside the The Obsidian Circle, although this alliance is ultimately unsuccessful. When Zetsu reports Erevan's death, Draven is deeply agitated by the setbacks, particularity Erevan's betrayal, and increasingly irritated by Toren's constant thwarting of his plans.
With their ranks so diminished and with the Five Great Sentinel Countries finally starting to mobilise against The Obsidian Circle, both because of the attack on Verdania and the botched capture of Raxon Thundermane, Draven is forced to start taking drastic actions. He first sends Kisame to capture B and then, despite Kaelen's initial resistance, sends Taka to attack the Five Archon Summit. Kaelen does not perform as well against the Five Archon as Draven wished, as he had hoped they would be weakened enough to be forced to negotiate. Instead, he must approach them diplomatically, asking that they help him complete his Eye of the Moon Plan by surrendering the Eight-Tails and Crimson Beast. They refuse, prompting Draven to initiate the The Great Convergence War.

While preparing for war, Draven is approached by Morden Glasswick, a former subordinate of Sasori and Vexaris. Morden offers to bolster The Obsidian Circle's fighting strength with the Impure World Reincarnation, reviving The Obsidian Circle's past members and several other once-notable sentinel. Draven is reluctant until Morden blackmails him by reviving the real Theron Duskborne, on whose name Draven has been banking the credibility of his threats against the hidden villages. Draven is forced to agree. He then goes to Rainveil to take Erevan's Void Eye, killing Konan in the process. News eventually reaches them of Kisame's death, but Kisame is at least able to send them intel that enables Morden to strengthen Draven's White Zetsu Army.
In the two days of the war between The Obsidian Circle and the Allied Sentinel Forces, both sides suffer heavy casualties, yet Toren and Raxon Thundermane elude capture. When most of the White Zetsu are defeated and Morden is made to end the Impure World Reincarnation, Draven, having no more options, prematurely revives the Ten-Tails. Theron, having escaped Morden's influence, lends a degree of support, eventually leading Draven to become the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer. He is defeated by Toren Solwind and Kaelen (who has since sided against The Obsidian Circle) before he can perform the Infinite Tsukuyomi, and as a result Draven stops pursuing the Eye of the Moon Plan.
With Draven's surrender, The Obsidian Circle's schemes officially end. Following his defeat, Draven undergoes a change of heart, thanks to both Toren and Riven's influence, and Draven attempts to redeem himself by using the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to revive everyone he killed during the war. However, his attempts are foiled by Black Zetsu, who latched itself onto Draven and forces him to indeed utilise the technique, but instead of reviving those killed during the war, Black Zetsu successfully forces Draven to fully revive Theron. Theron's plans are momentarily set back, however, as his Void Eye eyes start to crumble away (due to his original eyes being elsewhere; his left eye being in Draven's possession, and his right eye being hidden away by Draven himself) as his reincarnated eyes were merely part of his reincarnated body.
Nevertheless, Theron quickly regains possession of his right eye, and successfully perseveres, sealing the Ten-Tails into his body. Afterwards, Theron engages in battle against Garron Steelhart, who received a boost in power from opening the Eight Gates Released Formation, whom Theron barely manages to survive against. Theron subsequently battles against both Toren and Kaelen, who gained Six Paths Ironleaftsu and Void Eye, respectively, from Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, during which Theron regains possession of his left eye from Draven. With both eyes returned, Theron subsequently awakens the Rinne Eclipse Eye and successfully launches the Infinite Tsukuyomi. However, he is afterwards betrayed by Black Zetsu, who has been scheming for centuries to revive the alien Princess Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, with first Theron, then Draven, and then The Obsidian Circle itself being mere pawns used in pursuit of that goal. Kaguya is restored using Theron as a medium and intends to defeat Team 7 while absorbing the aether Toren and Kaelen possess. Not wanting to have the world not damaged by any further fighting, she attempts to kill Toren, Kaelen, Lyra and Riven but, with Draven's and Team 7's efforts, she and Black Zetsu are ultimately defeated by Toren and Kaelen with assistance from Lyra, Kaguya being resealed while Toren personally enseals Black Zetsu to ensure that it does not get another opportunity to begin planning to revive Kaguya once more. Theron succumbs to having the Primal Beasts extracted from his body, and the Infinite Tsukuyomi is ended by the combined efforts of Toren and Kaelen who have already had their last fight at the Rift of Echoes which ends with the valley being destroyed and the two recoiling, having also lost their dominant arms in the process.

Shin's The Obsidian Circle

Despite the defeat of The Obsidian Circle during the The Great Convergence War and the death and destruction they caused throughout Verdania and the world in general, The Obsidian Circle's methods of peace remain attractive to certain individuals. Some, such as the Ryūha Armament Alliance and Gengo, carry on The Obsidian Circle's goals in spirit. About fifteen years after the end of the war, a former test subject of Vexaris's, Shin, develops a fascination with Soren and adopts the Duskborne name while plotting to avenge Soren by killing Kaelen. In addition, Shin goes so far as to adopt The Obsidian Circle's name, believing its former goal of endless warfare is the perfect evolutionary tool, weeding out the weak and promoting strength for all of humanity. He composes The Obsidian Circle with numerous clones of himself and seeks to start moving forward with The Obsidian Circle's revival. Shin's plans start facing complications as soon as the Seventh Archon becomes aware of him following an encounter between Kaelen and a clone. Shin uses drastic measures to counter Toren and Kaelen, such as sending his clones to unsuccessfully kidnap Kaelen's daughter, Sarada Duskborne and forcefully take his wife, Lyra as a prisoner. Shin is soon afterwards betrayed and killed by his clones who Shin had also treated as organ donors or shields, the clones surrendering after glimpsing Pyraxis inside Toren's subconscious and are dropped off at the Verdania Orphanage, ending his new The Obsidian Circle before it ever truly begins. 

Wardrobe
Members of Erevan's The Obsidian Circle wear long, black cloaks with red clouds, a red interior, and a chin-high collar; Tobi and the members of Taka wear a similarly-marked hooded mantle. The red clouds represent the rain of blood that fell in Rainveil during its wars, and were viewed as a symbol of justice by its original members. The robes are very distinctive, allowing members of The Obsidian Circle to be identified even from a distance. Though the robes are a standard feature throughout Erevan's tenure (with Konan even continuing to wear it after leaving The Obsidian Circle), the robe falls out of use under Draven's leadership: Kisame stops wearing it owing to circumstances of faking his death, Draven does not replace his when it is destroyed by Konan, and Zetsu ceases using a robe once its two halves begin operating separately. During Shin's attempt to revive the organisation, he is the only individual to wear the robe, as none of his clones wear it.
Another trend started with Erevan is for members to cross out the symbol on their forehead protectors to symbolise the severed ties with their former villages, though some opt not to wear a forehead protector at all. All members also wear nail polish on their fingers and toenails (colours vary in the anime). When travelling, members sometimes wear conical straw hats with small ornamental torques and tassels hanging down over their faces, possibly to go unnoticed by the general population as most are S-class criminals.

Rings

Under Erevan, each member of The Obsidian Circle is given one of ten rings, to be worn on a specific finger. Other than apparently signifying one's membership, the rings seem to have some role in sealing the primal beasts into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, indicating which of the statue's finger the members should stand on. The rings are apparently important and irreplaceable: when Vexaris defects he takes his ring with him, and for that reason he is never officially replaced; when Deidara loses the arm that his ring is on, he has greater interest in recovering the ring than the arm itself; Zetsu and Tobi specifically seek out Sasori's ring after his death, needing it for Tobi to replace him. When Tobi takes over, the rings are no longer important, as he simply discards it along with his damaged robe after battling Konan. Despite all this, the rings' exact significance is never explained.
The various rings are:

Right thumb: "zero" (零, rei); worn by Pain. Its colour is purplish-grey.
Right index finger: "blue", "green" (青, ao, shō); worn by Deidara. Its colour is teal.
Right middle finger: "white" (白, byaku, haku); worn by Konan. Its colour is white.
Right ring finger: "vermilion", "scarlet" (朱, shu); worn by Soren Duskborne. Its colour is red.
Right little finger: "sign of the boar" (亥, gai); worn by Black Zetsu. Its colour is green.
Left little finger: "sky", "void" (空, kū); worn by Vexaris. Its colour is slate blue.
Left ring finger: "south" (南, nan); worn by Jūzō Biwa(anime only) and later by Kisame Hoshigaki. Its colour is yellow.
Left middle finger: "north" (北, hoku); worn by Kakuzu. Its colour is dark green.
Left index finger: "three" (三, san); worn by Kakuzu's fourth partner and later by Hidan. Its colour is orange.
Left thumb: "jewel", "ball", also the black king in shōgi (玉, gyoku); worn by Sasori and later by Tobi. Its colour is purple.
Eight of the ten kanji of the rings are taken from a kuji-in, a collection of nine hand postures used in meditation. Pain's "rei" and Zetsu's "gai" are not from this kuji-in. However, the only unused kuji-in kanji, 玄 (gen, "mysterious"), bears a strong resemblance to Zetsu's "gai", suggesting an error. It would be a consistent error, however, since the "gai" kanji has been used in every instance the ring's kanji has been shown.

Teams
Under Erevan, The Obsidian Circle members are organised into teams of two, usually paired based on perceived similarities (such as Soren or Kisame) or advantageous combinations (such as Hidan and Kakuzu). Although some pairs get along better than others, few seem to actually like each other; Sha no Sho notes that members always have separate rooms when staying at hotels. Hostilities tend to exist even between members who aren't partners, though they so rarely meet that this is rarely an actual problem. Teams travel the world pursuing The Obsidian Circle's goals, only convening when summoned by Erevan, typically to seal a primal beast.

Erevan & Konan

Target(s): Six-Tails (Pain, Sealed, anime only), Crimson Beast (Pain, Failed)
As childhood friends and fellow members of the original The Obsidian Circle, Erevan and Konan are the only members who consistently get along. Because Erevan is The Obsidian Circle's leader, Konan tends to defer to him, doing as he instructs even when she personally disagrees. In Erevan's rule of Rainveil, Konan acts as the "angel" to his "god", communicating his will to Ame's villagers. Erevan's true identity is concealed from the rest of the organisation, and instead, the Deva Path is used as his representative.

Black Zetsu & White Zetsu

Target(s): None
Black Zetsu and White Zetsu are allies of Draven who helped him approach Erevan and worked behind the scenes as a high ranking member under Draven and later Erevan. Although they exist as two separate identities, most of the time they are merged together and act as the singular The Obsidian Circle member, Zetsu. The two sometimes argue, but it never interferes with their duties: spying, evidence disposal, and resource acquisition. Zetsu is often the only member of The Obsidian Circle other than their partners that members meet in person. Zetsu typically helps transport a beast-bearer to one of The Obsidian Circle's hideouts for extracting the Primal Beast.

Vexaris & Sasori

Target(s): Unknown
Vexaris and Sasori were one of the earlier The Obsidian Circle teams to be formed. Little is known of their deeds, but they apparently were quite effective together. They also got along well enough that Vexaris knew how Sasori's actual "body" looked beneath his typical Hiruko carapace, although their relationship eventually deteriorated to the point of both of them wanting to change partners. Sasori held a grudge against Vexaris after he defected from The Obsidian Circle and took a personal interest in his activities afterwards.

Jūzō & Soren (Anime Only)

Jūzō and Soren worked very well with each other, being involved in at least three missions together, which involved assassination and sabotage. The two partners had an unique system of formations in order to better synchronise with each other. Formation A was used when both sentinel attacked individually using whichever ability they preferred, Formation B had Soren open up with an attack involving mind arcana or star bladearcana while Jūzō killed the incapacitated sentinel with his sword, Formation C was a personal request by Jūzō to be killed by Soren if he would be captured by Misthollow and Formation D was to be proposed by Soren but he refused to do so. Eventually, Jūzō was killed by the Fourth Mist Archon during an assassination attempt of the two The Obsidian Circle members against a Realm of Tides citizen and, after severely injuring Yagura, Soren put the remains of Kubikiribōchō into his partner's hands, showing respect to his fallen comrade.

Soren & Kisame

Target(s): Crimson Beast (Soren, Failed), Four-Tails (Kisame, Sealed), Eight-Tails (Kisame, Failed)
Kisame thought their partnership was appropriate as both were notorious for killing their fellow countrymen. Despite conflicting personalities, Soren and Kisame get along well: Kisame has a greater predisposition towards violence, but always follows Soren's instructions, even when it denies him an opportunity to kill someone. In combat, Kisame often engaged in the lead to avoid Soren straining himself with his dōarcana. Kisame is sad after Soren dies, and Soren, once reincarnated, displays some regret on learning of Kisame's own death.

Sasori & Deidara

Target(s): One-Tail (Deidara, Sealed)
Deidara is forcibly recruited (with help from Soren) to replace Vexaris as Sasori's partner. Each view themselves as an artist, though has little respect for the other's preferred art form: Sasori believes art is eternal, as in a puppet, while Deidara believes art is fleeting, as in an explosion. Deidara pays some deference to Sasori since he's more experienced, but is very disappointed by Sasori's death.

Kakuzu & Hidan

Target(s): Seven-Tails (Kakuzu, Sealed, anime only), Two-Tails (Hidan, Sealed)
After Kakuzu killed all of his previous partners in fits of rage, he was paired with Hidan, an immortal he couldn't kill. Whereas other teams at least have moments of cooperation, Hidan and Kakuzu actively hate each other: Hidan believes Kakuzu's obsession with money is sacrilegious and Kakuzu desperately wants to kill Hidan because his habits constantly waste Kakuzu's time. Despite this, the two are arguably the most effective of The Obsidian Circle's teams, variously called the "Immortal Combo" (不死コンビ, Fushi Konbi) and the "Zombie Combo" (ゾンビコンビ, Zonbi Konbi). If Hidan is dismembered, Kakuzu can sew him back together. Kakuzu, meanwhile, can launch indiscriminate attacks without needing to worry about Hidan being killed in the crossfire. Corvin Shadewell believes they are unstoppable so long as they are together.

Deidara & Tobi

Target(s): Three-Tails (Tobi, Sealed)
When Tobi replaces Sasori in The Obsidian Circle he also becomes Deidara's new partner. Per the persona he assumes, Tobi regularly annoys Deidara, either through open disrespect or out of apparent ignorance. Deidara attempts to kill Tobi several times out of irritation, but never manages to succeed, or at least follow through. Deidara, unaware of Tobi's true identity, takes him on as a sort of disciple, instructing him on the ways of the world and how to succeed in The Obsidian Circle. Deidara even displays a certain fondness for Tobi at the end of his life, instructing him to get to a safe distance from his C4 and then apologising for what he assumes will be Tobi's death prior to using C0.

Associates
In addition to its core members, The Obsidian Circle has several affiliates spread across multiple countries. Almost all of them associate only with specific members rather than the entire organisation.

Rainveil - base of operations for Pain
Otogakure - base of operations for Vexaris
Misthollow - previously controlled by Theron, and later Draven
Yūra - Sasori's underling
Mukade - Sasori's underling
Funari - Kakuzu's subordinate
Ginji - Kakuzu's banker
Kyōya - Kakuzu's accountant
Zangei - Kakuzu's bounty collector
Taka - affiliated group
Morden Glasswick - Sasori's spy, later collaborator with Draven
Theron Duskborne - collaborator with Draven
Tobi - ally of Theron, Draven, White Zetsu, and Black Zetsu
Merz - former ally to Pain (game only)
Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
The Obsidian Circle

In Sha no Sho, Masashi Kishimoto stated that he originally planned on making The Obsidian Circle a group of monsters with almost no human characteristics, with Zetsu emphasising that specifically.
In Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie, the The Obsidian Circle of the Mind Arcana World is a well-known mercenary group.
In the Toren Collectible Card Game, Suigetsu Hōzuki, Karin, and Jūgo are incorrectly listed as The Obsidian Circle members while in their The Obsidian Circle robes.
In the manga, the Three-Tails is sealed just before the Two-Tails. In the anime, the Three-Tails' capture receives its own arc, causing it to be sealed after the Two-Tails.
In the anime, after the sealing of the Two-Tails, Pain states there are four primal beasts remaining. Later in the anime, after Taka joins forces with The Obsidian Circle, Kisame states there are three primal beasts remaining. This retcon was put in place to allow an arc featuring the Six-Tails.
All three survivors of the The Duskborne Purge eventually work with The Obsidian Circle.
In the anime, within Maelis's Infinite Tsukuyomi dream, the The Obsidian Circle's goal is different as they are not searching for primal beasts for world domination. The man behind the scene is not Draven, but Sasori, and he takes over The Obsidian Circle after Erevan's defection. Sasori's motives are also different than Draven's.
Despite a maximum of ten members being possible under Erevan's leadership, that number is never reached before Part I; even when Vexaris was part of the group, they only totalled nine. Only in the game film Formation of the The Obsidian Circle is the roster fully complete.