This article is about the actual war. For other uses, see The Great Convergence War (disambiguation).

The The Great Convergence War (第四次忍界大戦, Daiyoji Ninkai Taisen, English TV: The Great Convergence War) was a conflict between the Allied Sentinel Forces and The Obsidian Circle. The battle began on the 8th of October and lasted until the 10th, with the complete victory of the Allied Sentinel Forces, the collapse of The Obsidian Circle, and the sealing of the Ten-Tails.

Preparations for War

Its beginning was declared by Tobi when the five Archon and the leader of the Land of Iron unanimously refused to surrender the Eight and Crimson Beast for his Eye of the Moon Plan. He then stated that he would use the seven primal beasts already captured by the The Obsidian Circle in combating the sentinel world. After this the Fifth Sand Archon, the Fifth Mist Archon, the Fourth Storm Archon, the Third Stone Archon, and General Mifune agreed to form a Sentinel Alliance, pooling all their resources against Tobi. Later the daimyō of the Five Great Sentinel Countries approved the coalition and the Fifth Archon joined the alliance while Morden Glasswick formed an alliance with Tobi.
Both factions began by gathering their strength and collecting intelligence about the other side in preparation for the upcoming hostilities. Kisame gathered intelligence on Stormspire's military strength and on Raxon Thundermane while travelling with him everywhere hidden inside Samehada. Anko Mitarashi and her team tracks Morden Glasswick, which led them to Tobi's headquarters. Other Sentinel Alliance teams have fanned out to collect other information about The Obsidian Circle and their hideouts.
At the start, Morden had formed an alliance with Tobi, demonstrating his use of the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation technique and increasing the forces of The Obsidian Circle with the reincarnation of deceased members of the organisation. Most of the Five Archon had also decided to hide the two remaining beast-bearer, Toren and Raxon Thundermane on an island in the Realm of Storms. Hiding Raxon Thundermane and Toren had the unintended result of allowing Toren to learn to control the Crimson Beast aether, much like the way Raxon Thundermane has of the Eight-Tails (in the anime, however, Maelis had intended for Toren to train with B from the beginning). Having been successful in his training, Toren has exhibited increased speed and strength when utilising the controlled aether of the Crimson Beast but lacks the same finesse that Raxon Thundermane had exhibited in utilising the Eight-Tails', crashing into the wall and crushing rocks whenever he uses the Crimson Beast aether.
Despite being captured in the end and committing suicide to keep the information he held secret, Kisame was able to finish The Obsidian Circle's preparations for the War by sending a summon shark with a scroll to his comrades, divulging the proximate location of the Turtle Island. With the battle between the two forces seeming to be on the horizon, Tobi dispatched Morden to retrieve the Crimson Beast and Eight-Tails with the reincarnated Deidara, but was stopped by Ōnoki, Akatsuchi and Kurotsuchi who were going to reinforce the forces on the Island Turtle. Morden escaped with Yamato, further adding to the intelligence sources that The Obsidian Circle has on the Sentinel Alliance and also strengthening the White Zetsu Army clones with Yamato's powers.
Both the Allied Sentinel Forces and The Obsidian Circle have amassed considerable forces for this war; 80,000 sentinel and samurai total make up the Alliance versus 100,000 Zetsu clones and reincarnated sentinel supplied by Morden making up Tobi's army.

Sides
Allied Sentinel Forces

The Allied Sentinel Forces created by the Five Great Nations and the Samurai of the Land of Iron consists of five main divisions, with Zephros of the Sand as the Regimental Commander. The First Division consists of mid-range fighters and is led by Darui. The Second Division is made up of close-range fighters and is led by Kitsuchi. The Third Division is under the command of Riven Ashveil, and features both close- and mid-range fighters. The Fourth Division contains only long-range fighters under the control of Zephros. Corvin is Zephros's right hand man and proxy commander of the Fourth Division as well. Finally, the Fifth division was created for the purpose of special operations, and features sentinel with unique skills. Mifune is the leader of these special operatives. There are also four special divisions formed for the war. The Logistical Support and Medical Division led by Shizune comprises of medical sentinel, the Surprise Attack Division led by Kankurō, has the task to ambush the enemy forces. The third is the Sensor Division with Ao as captain, and finally the Intelligence Division headed by Inoichi Mindthorn is intended to gather information and relay it to Zephros for strategy's sake.

Name
Position

 A

Supreme Leader of the Allied Sentinel Forces

 Zephros

Regimental Commander of the Allied Sentinel Forces, Fourth Division Commander

 Darui

First Division Commander

 Kitsuchi

Second Division Commander

 Riven Ashveil

Third Division Commander

 Corvin Shadewell

Fourth Division Proxy Commander

 Mifune

Fifth Division Commander

 Shizune

Logistical Support and Medical Division Captain

 Kankurō

Surprise Attack Division Captain

 Ao

Sensor Division Captain

 Inoichi Mindthorn

Intelligence Division Captain

 Mei Terumī

Daimyō Protection Squad Captain

 Shikaku Shadewell

Chief Strategist

The Obsidian Circle

The Obsidian Circle is only composed of Tobi and Zetsu. Their primary military force is composed of 100,000 Zetsu clones created through a combination of the primal beasts' aether and Hashirama Ironleaf's power. Tobi plans to use Kaelen Duskborne once he has recovered from his Ascended Eclipse Eye transplant. Morden Glasswick has also formed an alliance with The Obsidian Circle, reincarnating a large number of once-famous and powerful sentinel to supplement the White Zetsu Army, including several former members of The Obsidian Circle.

Strategies
Allied Sentinel Forces
Initial Deployment

Analysing their own and their enemy's location, the Allied Sentinel Forces have decided that The Obsidian Circle will send a small fraction of their army by sea from the Mountains' Graveyard (The Obsidian Circle's hideout) to Stormspire, and that most of the army will travel by land. This would require the army to move through both the Land of Frost and the Land of Hot Water. An immediate evacuation notice was sent to both countries, and they will most likely evacuate to the south, in the Realm of Embers. The First Division, which is the mid-range battle division, is stationed in the northern part of the Realm of Storms, in order to prevent the The Obsidian Circle from using the small gulf to infiltrate the area from Mountains' Graveyard. The Second Division, or short-range battle division, is on the border of the Realm of Storms and the Land of Frost, sealing a northerly path into the Realm of Storms. The Third Division, or the short- to mid-range battle division, was advancing fast through the middle of the Land of Frost, but was called into the northern part of the Land of Hot Water to aid the Surprise Attack Division. The Fourth Division, the long-range battle division, is on the border of the Realm of Storms and the Land of Frost, sealing a southerly path into the Realm of Storms. Mifune's Fifth Division, the special battle division, is aligned in a large arc from the north part of the Land of Frost, through the middle of the border between the Land of Frost and the Realm of Storms, all the way to just south of the First Division, in order to aid any of the divisions that need immediate response, and to finish the seal on the Land of Frost and the Realm of Storms's border.

Secondary Deployment

As the confrontation develops, resulting in both the First and Fourth Divisions opposing two separate yet equally significant contingents of the enemy's forces, Shikaku Shadewell devises a strategy to better reflect the conflict's current developments. Confronted with two distinct groups, the decision is made not to individualise the targets and instead concentrate entirely on those facing Darui's First Division, by connecting their forces with those stationed within the Easterly end of Mifune's Fifth Division. The majority of Kitsuchi's Second Division will move simultaneously to this, proceeding along the ocean and sandwiching the enemy force in a pincer-manoeuvre, while the remainder attends to the adversaries that they are already battling.

Consequently, this will severely thin out the Second Division but as the Fifth Division fills in the gaps left behind by the Second Division, it will match that of the Fifth Division's formation, which then provides a solitary yet solid line of defence. As this occurs, Zephros's Fourth Division will make a slow retreat while moving into a sideways chevron formation, luring the enemy into following them. Eventually the top portion of this 'line' will break away and join the First Division, giving them yet further support.
Once the first targeted group of enemies is defeated, the joint forces of the First and supporting Fourth Division will switch to the remaining opposition at Zephros's Fourth Division, approaching from behind and decimating them in a single decisive strike. However; this preliminary plan relies upon the swift mobilisation of the Second and Fifth Divisions, so as to best employ Kitsuchi's units experience in combating the current enemy, and the belief that the opposition will be unable to mount a full attack upon the retreating long-range battle division, due partially to the enemy's suspicion over why the Fourth Division would split and their inability to get in close.

Night-time Deployment
As darkness falls and the remainder of the troops reallocate their forces in favour of observation, the Alliance takes the opportunity to centralise the Logistical Support and Medical Division behind their defences to attend to all the wounded sentinel. The compound is guarded by two Boulderkin clan members at its only entrance and the aether of anyone entering the compound is verified and cross referenced with the Alliance's headquarters, to prevent the infiltration of hostile intruders.
However, in spite of these various precautions, the Alliance's considerable defences fail to thwart the intrusion of a significant quantity of disguised White Zetsu Army clones and the resultant fatalities caused by the opposition's subsequent movements. As chaos ensues with individuals unable to ascertain friend from foe due to the aether mimicking properties of the aforementioned clones, Shikaku Shadewell is tasked with the creation of a solution to counter this sudden perilous development. Despite much thought, he concludes that only Toren's recently awakened capability to discern a person's "evil" intent, presents a viable resolution and due to his Phantom Double Technique, many of the issues occurring within the dispersed divisions are solved simultaneously. This decision prompts the mobilisation of both beast-bearer in preparation for the following day.

The Obsidian Circle
Day One Deployment
Much less was initially known about the The Obsidian Circle strategy, but it was made evident that their primary objective remained the acquisition of the surviving beast-bearer. From the small amount of information that had been divulged; Morden would maintain direct manipulation of the movements of the reincarnated individuals until they had reached their appointed destinations, with the intention of eradicating their personalities when the actual conflict began to turn them into mindless implements of death, while still manipulating any emotional response they could potentially illicit to full advantage, in the hopes of inflicting further damage. During the course of this approach, a small Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon (comprised of Sasori, Deidara, Chūkichi and Shin) would attack from the air, utilising bombs and traps to disperse the enemy. However, realising that the movement of their entire army in such a large and apparent fashion would be far too conspicuous, the decision was instead undertaken to dislocate the 100,000 White Zetsu Army clones beneath the ground, in order to thoroughly conceal the approach of the main contingent of their forces. Though a large amount of these clones were eventually unearthed, thousands more were able to proceed unobstructed underground to their respective battlegrounds, due in part to the diversionary tactics made possible by the addition of Morden's reincarnated sentinel.
Concurrent to the developing conflict, Black Zetsu would utilise the resulting turmoil in order to infiltrate the daimyō's safe house as per Tobi's orders, with the sole intention of using these valued captives as bargaining chips to draw out the beast-bearer. However, with the beast-bearer's decision to expose themselves and take direct action before this assignments completion, it was deemed unnecessary and so Black Zetsu's role was altered to instead engage with the daimyō's guards, ensuring their continued separation from the remainder of the Allied Sentinel Forces.

Night-time Deployment
As the confrontation progresses and night falls upon the first day, Tobi's true intentions and the reasons behind his confidence in his original strategy, which didn't account for Morden's inclusion or contributions, is revealed. The two opposing sides would effectively be forced into a staring contest as the Allied Sentinel Forces focus on tightening defences and tending to the wounded or resting. Tobi, aware that this would make the Allied Sentinel completely reliant upon their sensor sentinel in order to remain vigilant, then begins taking advantage of this by utilising the Zetsu clones' Substitute Technique in conjunction with the aether obtained from members of the Allied Sentinel Forces during the previous battles. By covertly placing these transformed Zetsu among the injured and scattered troops of the Allied Sentinel, they could then proceed to assassinate any isolated individuals while remaining undetected. This results in causing chaos and disagreement within the ranks of the Allied Sentinel who begin to suspect one another of committing these deeds without any definitive proof, but while also minimising the causalities suffered by the The Obsidian Circle forces in the process. In addition, the attack of the transformed Zetsu also aimed to force the sentinel alliance to counter these insurgents, placing Toren in the battlefield whose ability to recognise "evil" intent Tobi has learned from the intel gathered by Kisame.
Unbeknownst to the opposition, Tobi had also begun developing further contingencies in preparation for the second day of the conflict, creating his own Six Paths of Pain by utilising the former beast-bearer and customising them with both a Void Eye and a Eclipse Eye.

Day One
Battle at Mountains' Graveyard
Location: Mountains' Graveyard
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Morden Glasswick, Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
Allied Sentinel Forces: Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party
Duration
Manga: Chapter #516 to #517
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #261 to #262
Outcome: Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party are all captured. Muta Hivewood manages to send intel back to HQ. The Obsidian Circle tactical victory. Allied Sentinel Forces strategic victory.
When The Obsidian Circle starts mobilising from the Mountains' Graveyard, Anko Mitarashi orders the rest of the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party to inform the rest of the Allies while she continues to investigate. She is found and defeated by Morden Glasswick. The Obsidian Circle's Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon pursues and ultimately captures the remaining members of the Reconnaissance Party, but cannot stop them from getting word to the Alliance's HQ.

Battle of the Surprise Attack Divisions
Location: Land of Hot Water
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon
Allied Sentinel Forces: Surprise Attack Division
Duration
Manga: Chapter #517 to #519
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #262 to #263
Outcome: Muta Hivewood is killed. Deidara is captured by Kankurō's team. Shin and Sasori return to the afterlife in peace. Chūkichi flees. Allied Sentinel Forces raised into victory.
The Alliance sends its Surprise Attack Division to ambush The Obsidian Circle's forces in the Land of Hot Water. The Obsidian Circle sends its Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon to do the same. The two are drawn into conflict. The Allies eventually emerge victorious – Sasori and Shin are released from the Impure World Reincarnation and Deidara is captured – and they are even able to rescue some of the captured members of the Infiltration and Reconnaissance Party.

Allied Force's Ambush
Location: Land of Hot Water
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Haku, Pakura, Gari, the previous Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist, portion of the White Zetsu Army, Chen (anime only)
Allied Sentinel Forces: Part of the Surprise Attack Division, Third Division, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #520 to #573
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #265 to #330
Outcome: Tajiki and dozens of Allied Sentinel killed or wounded. All reincarnated sentinel sealed or released. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
Following the success of their first mission, part of the Surprise Attack Division is sent to ambush another The Obsidian Circle cell. They encounter a group consisting of Zabuza Momochi, Haku, Pakura, Gari and, though outnumbered, attack. When the attack fails, the Third Division is called in to assist. The Obsidian Circle's forces – reinforced with reincarnated members of the Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist (and Chen in the anime) – cause heavy casualties amongst the Third Division. Zabuza and Haku are successfully sealed early on, but sealing of the others proves more challenging. By the second day of the war three reincarnated sentinel remain, now bolstered by White Zetsu. The assistance of one of Toren Solwind's shadow clones enables the Third Division to deal with the remaining The Obsidian Circle forces.

Battle in the Land of Frost
Location: Border of the Land of Frost and the Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Around 20,000 clones of the White Zetsu Army
Allied Sentinel Forces: Second Division, westerly section of the Fifth Division, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #521 to #573
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #264 to #330
Outcome: Tactical withdrawal of the Allied Sentinel Forces to aid the First Division. Eventual Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
When the war begins, the Second Division is deployed to the border of the Land of Frost and the Realm of Storms. Approximately 20,000 White Zetsu are detected moving into the Realm of Storms underground, prompting Kitsuchi and Kurotsuchi to use Earth Release: Opening Earth Rising Excavation to unearth them. In an opening salvo the Second Division is able to destroy scores of White Zetsu, but it quickly descends into one of attrition, tiring much of the Second Division and allowing many White Zetsu to escape. Most of the Second Division is sent in pursuit of these Zetsu by assisting the First Division, leaving their remaining forces to face a new threat: White Zetsu that have infiltrated the Alliance. Members of the Second Division are slowly eliminated by the Zetsu and left uncertain about who to trust until the second day when the arrival of one of Toren Solwind's shadow clones allows them to root out all of the Zetsu.

First Battle on the Realm of Storms's Coast
Location: North-western coast of the Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Thousands of the White Zetsu Army, Asuma Embercrown, Hizashi Moonvane, Dan Katō, Kakuzu, Kinkaku, Ginkaku
Allied Sentinel Forces: First Division, parts of the Second Division, Fourth Division, the eastern tail of the Fifth Division
Duration
Manga: Chapter #525 to #536
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #268 to #276
Outcome: Atsui, Samui, and Ginkaku are sealed within the Benihisago. Kinkaku is sealed within the Kohaku no Jōhei. Asuma Embercrown is sealed. All White Zetsu are killed. Several sentinel are killed. Dan Katō is trapped within the Four Violet Flames Formation. Kakuzu and Hizashi Moonvane are subdued by Chōji Boulderkin. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
When the war begins, the First Division is stationed along the north-western coast of the Realm of Storms. They are soon confronted by the reincarnated sentinel and White Zetsu that escaped the Second Division's defence along the country's perimeter. The two sides engage each other, with Division Commander Darui facing off with the Gold and Silver Brothers. Darui initially struggles with the brothers and their Treasured Tools of the Sage of Six Paths, but eventually is able to turn the tools against the brothers to capture Ginkaku in their own Benihisago. This enrages Kinkaku to the point that he enters a version 2 form, which he uses to tear through the First Division. After reinforcements from the Second, Fourth, and Fifth arrive and the Alliance HQ sends the Kohaku no Jōhei to the battlefield, Kinaku is captured.
With the Gold and Silver Brothers dealt with, the Allies turn their attention to the remaining reincarnated sentinel: Asuma Embercrown is defeated by his former students; Kakuzu and Hizashi Moonvane are sealed with the help of Chōji Boulderkin; Dan Katō is trapped within a Four Violet Flames Formation. The remaining White Zetsu are seemingly defeated, leaving the Allies victorious.

Battle in the Land of Hot Water
Location: Land of Hot Water
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Hanzō, Chiyo, Kimimaro, Chūkichi, Ibuse
Allied Sentinel Forces: Part of the Surprise Attack Division, Mifune, samurai and sentinel of the Fifth Division, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #530 to #591
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #272 to #340
Outcome: Ibuse injured. Several samurai killed. All reincarnated sentinel released from Impure World Reincarnation. Kankurō's portion of the Surprise Attack Division paralysed, but later given antidote. Allied Sentinel's victory.
While part of the Surprise Attack Division is transporting the captured Deidara they are met by a restaffed Surprise Attack and Diversion Platoon. The Surprise Attack Division attempts to escape, but is paralysed by Hanzō's summoned Ibuse. They are rescued by samurai of the Fifth Division, with Mifune engaging and ultimately emerging victorious over Hanzō. Kimimaro and Chiyo prove more elusive, and it is not until the Impure World Resurrection is released on the second day that they are defeated.

Second Battle on the Realm of Storms's Coast
Location: North-western coast of the Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Tobi, the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path
Allied Sentinel Forces: First Division, parts of the Second Division, Fourth Division, the eastern tail of the Fifth Division
Duration
Manga: Chapter #536 to #537
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #276
Outcome: Dan Katō is temporarily freed. Kakuzu is sealed. Hundreds of Allied Sentinel dead in Demonic Statue of the Outer Path's rampage. Tobi retrieves the Benihisago and Kohaku no Jōhei containing the Gold and Silver Brothers. The Obsidian Circle victory.
Almost immediately after the First Division and its backup defeats the last of The Obsidian Circle's forces, Tobi appears on the battlefield and summons the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. Despite the efforts of Kitsuchi, Chōza, and Chōji, the Statue decimates the Allied forces. While taking shelter from the Statue's attacks, members of the First Division begin to realise the attack is just a distraction while Tobi acquires the captured Gold and Silver Brothers. They aren't able to stop him in time and he escapes with the Benihisago and Kohaku no Jōhei. His mission accomplished, Tobi de-summons the statue.

The Battle for the Daimyō's Protection
Location: Unknown
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Black Zetsu
Allied Sentinel Forces: Daimyō Protection Squad, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #536 to #562
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #276 to #322
Outcome: Black Zetsu's upper half is incapacitated. Lower half escapes. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
In order to force the Allies' cooperation, Black Zetsu is sent to capture the daimyō of the Five Great Sentinel Countries. He is found and stopped by the Daimyō Protection Squad almost immediately after he arrives at the secret compound. Before he begins fighting he senses Toren Solwind's appearance on the battlefield and informs Tobi of this development. The daimyō's capture ceases to matter, but Black Zetsu is instructed to keep the Daimyō Protection Squad busy. One of Toren's shadow clones arrives on the second day to help capture Black Zetsu.

Night One
At the end of the first day of the battle, both the Alliance and The Obsidian Circle received massive casualties, having effectively halved both their battle forces. The 80,000 strong Allied Sentinel Forces were brought down to 40,000 and the 100,000 strong White Zetsu Army was brought down to 50,000, on top of the several already sealed reincarnated sentinel.
During the day of fighting, members of the White Zetsu Army infiltrated the Alliance's ranks. Once night falls, the disguised Zetsu begin methodically eliminating key Allied personnel all across the battlefield. The Alliance is thrown into disarray until Lyra Bloomhart is able to determine what is happening. Despite this, there are no effective countermeasures against the Zetsu and vigilance is unable to prevent additional deaths. Suspicion reigns over the Allies.

Day Two
Skirmishes in the Realm of Storms
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Platoon of White Zetsu Army posing as Allied Sentinel, Toroi
Allied Sentinel Forces: Toren Solwind, Raxon Thundermane, Gamahiro, Musai, Nonota
Duration
Manga: Chapter #545 to #546
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #296
Outcome: All White Zetsu killed. Toren uses his Phantom Double Technique to disperse clones into the battlefield. Toroi is sealed. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
Early in the night, Toren and Raxon Thundermane escape their confinement in the Realm of Storms. Although the Fourth Storm Archon and Fifth Archon are sent to intercept them and place them under guard again, Toren, B and later Maelis are able to convince the Storm Archon to allow him and B to fight.
Toren and B's contributions immediately prove invaluable. They encounter a platoon of Allied sentinel heading towards HQ, which Toren recognises as disguised Zetsu. Toren and B defeat them all and Toren sends his shadow clones to various battlefields to lend whatever assistance they can. As Toren and B continue outbound from the Realm of Storms, they are able to save Musai and Nonota from a reincarnated Toroi.

First Southern Battle in the Realm of Storms
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Mū, Second Mist Archon, Third Storm Archon, Fourth Sand Archon, Giant Clam
Allied Sentinel Forces: Part of the Fourth Division with its Commander Zephros, Ōnoki, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #546 to #558
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #296 to #302
Outcome: Dozens of Allied Forces sentinel are killed. The Third Storm Archon, Second Mist Archon, Fourth Sand Archon, and half of Mū are sealed. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
The Fourth Division encounters the reincarnated Mū on the first day of hostilities. The Obsidian Circle responds by sending the Second Mist Archon, the Third Storm Archon, and the Fourth Sand Archon to reinforce Mū. The Alliance likewise sends Ōnoki to assist the Fourth Division. Despite this, the Fourth Division avoids conflict until the second day when other Divisions – their own battles won – can be called in to help.
Zephros launches the first attack – which in turn is countered by the Fourth Sand Archon's gold dust – Ōnoki engages Mū, and elements of the First Division attack the Storm Archon and Mist Archon from the rear. The Fourth Sand Archon is captured and sealed while protecting the Storm Archon and Mist Archon, but the remaining Archon are more elusive: the Storm Archon is largely impervious to damage, the Mist Archon and his summoned clam cannot be located in their mirage, and Ōnoki is unable to overpower Mū.
When Toren's shadow clone arrives it takes Mū by surprise and, in the ensuing confusion, Mū is sealed before he can respond. Toren next focuses on the Third Storm Archon, whose defences are impenetrable and whose attacks are unstoppable. When his and the Alliance's combined efforts can do nothing against the Storm Archon, Toren manoeuvres the Storm Archon against himself, using his own attacks to break his own defences and creating an opening to seal him. Meanwhile, Zephros and Ōnoki face-off with the Mist Archon. They're able to destroy the Mist Archon's clam, but struggle with his Steaming Danger Tyranny. Zephros is ultimately able to sneak some of the Fourth Sand Archon's remaining gold dust into the Mist Archon's technique, neutralising it and allowing the Mist Archon to be sealed.

Battle Against the Dōarcana Duo
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Soren Duskborne (beginning), Erevan, Giant Drill-Beaked Bird, Giant Multi-Headed Dog, Giant Snake-Tailed Chameleon
Allied Sentinel Forces: Toren Solwind, Raxon Thundermane, Soren Duskborne (later)
Duration
Manga: Chapter #548 to #552
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #298 to #299
Outcome: Soren is freed from Morden's control. Erevan is sealed. Allied Sentinel Forces victory
Morden Glasswick decides to temporarily kill Toren and Raxon Thundermane in order to deal with them in the short term and make it easier to use them against Tobi in the long term. To that end, he sends the reincarnated Erevan and Soren Duskborne after them. While Erevan attacks them with different summons, Soren activates the Kotoamatsukami he planted on Toren before his death, releasing him from Morden's control and allowing him to assist with defeating Erevan. Though his body was frail, Erevan is able to regain his mobility by absorbing B's version 2 aether. Although this revitalised Erevan is nearly able to remove Toren's soul, he is overpowered by the three and sealed by Soren's Susanoo.

Battle Against the Sound Four
Location: North-western coast of the Realm of Storms and Land of Frost
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: The Sound Four
Allied Sentinel Forces: Corvin Shadewell, Chōji Boulderkin, Aldric Moonvane, Kiba Fangcrest, Akamaru, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #303 to #305
Outcome: Reincarnated Sound Four souls released. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
On various battlefields, the reincarnated Sound Four tries to take revenge against the members of the Kaelen Recovery Team that killed them years earlier. Individually the Sound Four are defeated, but with the Space–Time Technique Formula: Underworld Turnover their defeated bodies ensnare the souls of their targets. The vengeance that fuels their technique is traceable by Toren's shadow clone, who locates them, returns their souls to the afterlife, and frees their victims.

Hunt for Hayate
Location: Logistical Support and Medical Division forest
Combatants
 The Obsidian Circle: Hayate Gekkō, two unidentified reincarnated sentinel
Allied Sentinel Forces: Iō, Yokaze, Yūgao Uzuki, Lyra Bloomhart
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #307 to #308
Outcome: Iō and Yokaze injured. Hayate Gekkō and two unidentified sentinel are sealed. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
The Logistical Support and Medical Division prioritises the protection of the corpses of those with kekkei genkai so that The Obsidian Circle cannot use their bodies against the Alliance. A reincarnated Hayate Gekkō is sent to steal a scroll the bodies are stored in. He succeeds, but is pursued by Yūgao Uzuki, his former lover. Yūgao is initially unwilling to fight Hayate, forcing Lyra Bloomhart to deal with him. Yūgao does finally intervene when Hayate is about to kill Lyra and her presence stays his blade long enough for a Sealing Team to capture him.

Battle Against Tatewaki
Location: Realm of Storms forest
Combatants:
The Obsidian Circle: Tatewaki
Allied Sentinel Forces: Karui, part of the Second Division, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #309 to #310
Outcome: Tatewaki able to break contract with Morden Glasswick and return to the afterlife. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
In the anime, part of the Second Division is attacked by a reincarnated Tatewaki, who they struggle to fight against. A short time later, one of Toren's shadow clones arrives to help. Having met Tatewaki when he was alive, Toren is able to speak of him and informs him of the fates of Shū and Chiyo. When he hears they are safe and happy, Tatewaki's soul is put at peace and he is released from the Impure World Reincarnation.

Battle Against Yota
Location: North-western coast of Realm of Storms and Land of Frost and Logistical Support and Medical Division
Combatants:
The Obsidian Circle: Yota, three White Zetsu clones taking on his appearance, portion of the White Zetsu Army
Allied Sentinel forces: portion of the Second Division, Fourth Division, Corvin Shadewell, Chōji Boulderkin, Ino Mindthorn, Kiba Fangcrest, Akamaru, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #313 to #315
Outcome: Yota able to break contract with Morden Glasswick and return to the afterlife. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
A reincarnated person appears on three different battlefields and produces strange weather patterns. Members of Verdania's Rookie Nine recognise him as Yota, who they knew when they were in the Academy. However, only one of the three can be the real Yota, the other two being transformed Zetsu. One of Toren's shadow clones locates the real Yota and reminisces with him about the fun they had when they were kids. Yota's soul is put at peace and he is released from the Impure World Reincarnation, but not before he destroys his corpse to prevent being revived again.

Battle Against the Lesser Reincarnated Sentinel
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants:
The Obsidian Circle: Torune, Heiji, Chūkaku, Daimaru, Osoi, many lesser reincarnated sentinel, White Zetsu clones
Allied Sentinel forces: Part of the Fourth Division, including Temari, Yukata, Matsuri, Musai, Nonota, Shino Hivewood, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippuden #316 to #317
Outcome: All reanimated sentinel sealed. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
The loss of so many valuable pawns forces Morden to use the sentinel he mistakenly reincarnated in pursuit of other, stronger sentinel. He places Torune in charge of a squad with the mission to release some of the sentinel sealed by the Allies, such as Toroi and the Third Storm Archon. All but Torune are caught in traps placed by the Fourth Division around the sealed sentinel. Torune attempts to use a kinarcana that would devastate the Allied sentinel, but is stopped and sealed by Shino Hivewood and one of Toren's shadow clones.

Battle Against Blue B
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants:
The Obsidian Circle: Blue B, portion of the White Zetsu Army
Allied Sentinel forces: Raxon Thundermane, Motoi
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippuden #318
Outcome: All White Zetsu Army clones defeated and Blue B able to break contract with Morden Glasswick and return to the afterlife. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
Morden decides to test Raxon Thundermane's skills by reincarnating his predecessor as the Eight-Tails' beast-bearer: Blue B. B, with Motoi's help, engages Blue B, but they are soon put on the defensive. Motoi is nearly killed trying to buy time for B to escape, but B comes back to save him. B speaks with Blue B telepathically and vows to help him however he can. Glad that B has found the kind of purpose he lacked in his own life, Blue B's soul is put at peace and he is released from the Impure World Reincarnation.

Water Attack Raid Unit Rescue
Location: Seventh Front
 Combatants:
 The Obsidian Circle: Two thousand White Zetsu Army clones
Allied Sentinel Forces: Water Attack Raid Unit, Thundercloud Unit, Omoi, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Anime: Toren: Shippuden #320
Outcome: Portion of the Water Attack Raid Unit annihilated. All White Zetsu Army clones defeated. Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
In the anime, the Water Attack Raid Unit comes under attack near the Seventh Front by the White Zetsu Army. Allied Sentinel HQ sends the Thundercloud Unit as reinforcements, who soon find themselves getting overwhelmed as well. Omoi abandons his post to assist them, but by the time he arrives the Water Attack Raid Unit has already been defeated. Eventually, Omoi locates the Thundercloud Unit and with their help is able to eventually defeat the white Zetsu.

Second Southern Battle in the Realm of Storms
Location: Realm of Storms
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Theron Duskborne, Mū's other half
Allied Sentinel Forces: Fourth Division, the five Archon, the Archon Guard Platoon, Toren Solwind's shadow clone
Duration
Manga: Chapter #559 to #600
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #321 to #343
Outcome: Heavy Allied Sentinel casualties. All Archon critically wounded. Mū released from the Impure World Reincarnation. Theron severed contract with technique and rendezvous with Tobi. The Obsidian Circle victory.
When he was attacked by Toren's shadow clone earlier, Mū's body instinctively split in two, of which only one was sealed. The second half cannot release the first half, so Morden uses the only option he has left: he uses Mū as a medium to summon a reincarnated Theron Duskborne. Morden encourages Theron to show what made him so legendary, which Theron obliges by attacking the nearby Fourth Division. Zephros, Ōnoki, Toren's shadow clone, and the rest of the Allies present are already outmatched by Theron, which is only made worse when Theron drops two meteorites upon them, wiping out most of the Fourth Division. Theron attacks the survivors with Wood Release Secret Technique: Nativity of a World of Trees, which Toren does his best to defend against.
Toren's shadow clone is beginning to run low on aether and cannot hold out against Theron for much longer. The three remaining Archon (A, Maelis, and Mei Terumī) arrive on the battlefield to join Zephros and Ōnoki against Theron, instructing Toren to trust the fight to them. Toren's clone vanishes, remnants of the Fourth Division pursue Mū's half, and the Archon engage Theron. Although the Archon pull off some attacks that impress even Theron, they cannot hope to defeat him so long as he is an immortal reincarnation that recovers from all injuries. All they can hope to do is endure against Theron's various powers until Morden is defeated and the Impure World Reincarnation is broken.
As night starts to fall, the Archon cannot last much longer, Theron having multiple clones that are each using Susanoo to outnumber them five-to-one. Before he can wage a final attack, Theron is engulfed in light and his soul begins to ascend, Morden having elsewhere been defeated. Theron releases himself from the influence of the Impure World Reincarnation, granting him an immortal body. Free to do what he wants, Theron decides to go find Toren. The Archon try to stop him, but each is brought to the verge of death in an unseen battle and Theron escapes.

First Battle Against the Eye of the Moon Plan
Location: Realm of Storms, Kamui's dimension
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Tobi, the six reincarnated beast-bearer, six of the sealed Primal Beasts, Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, Theron Duskborne
Allied Sentinel Forces: Toren Solwind, Raxon Thundermane, Riven Ashveil, Garron Steelhart
Duration
Manga: Chapter #563 to #609
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #323 to #362
Outcome: The six primal beasts are resealed in the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. The six reincarnated beast-bearer are released from the Impure World Reincarnation. Ten-Tails is revived. Tactical The Obsidian Circle victory.
Tobi uses the reincarnated bodies of the former beast-bearer to create his own Six Paths of Pain, each with their old primal beasts sealed back into them. They converge on Raxon Thundermane and the real Toren and engage them in battle. After a brief exchange B is able to restrain and nearly seal all six, but they free themselves by entering version 2 forms. In the chaos created by these stronger opponents, Tobi almost captures Toren, but he is stopped by the arrival of Riven Ashveil and Garron Steelhart.
Tobi begins to have some of the beast-bearer enter Primal Beast Mode to overwhelm the Allied sentinel. The Four-Tails goes after and swallows Toren, which gives its beast-bearer, Rōshi, a chance to communicate to Toren how to release them from Tobi's control. Toren escapes from the Four-Tails' mouth and locates the aether receiver on its body. By removing it he frees Rōshi and the Four-Tails, to which Tobi responds by first reclaiming the Four-Tails and then by having all the other beast-bearer fully transform. The Crimson Beast is touched by Toren's determination to help its fellow primal beasts and thus gives its full cooperation to Toren. Their new and improved Crimson Beast Aether Mode allows them to defeat and free the other primal beasts, but Tobi reclaims them into Demonic Statue of the Outer Path too.
Tobi fights Toren, B, Riven, and Garron by himself until he is alerted to Morden's defeat. Running out of options, he initiates a premature revival of the Ten-Tails by depositing the sealed Gold and Silver Brothers (who contain remnants of the Nine-Tail' aether) and one of the Eight-Tails' tentacles into the Statue. He places a barrier around it as it undergoes its transformation and engages his four opponents in the meantime. Their efforts to attack Tobi fail until they notice a connection between his ability to become intangible and Riven's Kamui. By taking advantage of this connection, they are able to land a successful attack and destroy his mask, finally revealing him as Draven Duskborne.
Moments after his identity is exposed, Draven is joined by Theron, having just finished up with the five Archon. Noticing that the Statue has not had the Eight or Crimson Beast sealed into it yet, Theron attempts to take the beasts from Toren and B before the Ten-Tails is revived. Riven and Garron defend them while Toren and B try to destroy the Statue, but they are too late and the Ten-Tails is revived.

Battle Against the Impure World Reincarnation Technique
Location: Mountains' Graveyard
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Morden Glasswick
Other: Soren Duskborne, Kaelen Duskborne
Duration
Manga: Chapter #578 to #589
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #333 to #339
Outcome: Morden is trapped in Izanami and unable to fight. All reincarnated sentinel (except Theron Duskborne) are released. Tactical Allied Sentinel Forces victory.
After freeing himself from Morden's control, Soren tasks himself with breaking the Impure World Reincarnation. He traces Morden to the Mountains' Graveyard. Along the way Soren is found and joined by his younger brother, Kaelen. They locate Morden, but know they cannot kill him if the Impure World Reincarnation is to be released. After taking precautions to protect himself from their mind arcana, Morden takes advantage of their unwillingness to kill him by bombarding them with all the abilities he's acquired for himself: the pilfered abilities of the late Sound Four, the research of Vexaris, and a Elder Form he's trained to perfection. The Duskborne brothers defend themselves, helped particularly by their Susanoo. Ultimately, Soren traps Morden in the endless loop of Izanami. Defeated, Morden is compelled via mind arcana to release Impure World Reincarnation, sending Soren and the other reincarnated sentinel back to the afterlife.

Night Two
Battle Against the Ten-Tails
Location: Realm of Storms, Kamui's dimension
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Draven Duskborne, Theron Duskborne, the Ten-Tails, Black Zetsu
Allied Sentinel Forces: Toren Solwind, Raxon Thundermane, Riven Ashveil, Garron Steelhart, all avaliable divisions of the Allied Forces, the four reincarnated Archon, the five Archon
Independent: Taka, Vexaris, the seven primal beasts
Duration
Manga: Chapter #610 to #656
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #363 to #391
Outcome: Allied Sentinel Forces' Headquarters destroyed, resulting in the deaths of Shikaku Shadewell, Inoichi Mindthorn, Mabui and Kussaku. Allied Sentinel Forces suffer major casualties, among them Aldric Moonvane. Draven becomes beast-bearer of Ten-Tails until it is released. Draven forced to resurrect Theron. Allied Sentinel Forces tactical victory. The Obsidian Circle strategic victory.
Though the Ten-Tails is restored, it will still be some time before the moon is in a position to complete the Eye of the Moon Plan. Theron and Draven therefore opt to eliminate the opposition in the meantime. They take control of the Ten-Tails and use it to try and destroy Toren, B, Riven, and Garron, but the remaining Allied Sentinel Forces arrive in time to stop the attack. They combine their efforts to restrain and bind the Ten-Tails, but the victory is brief; the Ten-Tails transforms and frees itself.
Theron and Draven recognise the coordination involved to bring such a huge force together so effectively and use the Ten-Tails to destroy the Allied HQ to prevent future coordinating. Almost all stationed there are killed, Ao being the only known survivor, but Shikaku Shadewell is able to communicate one final attack plan to the Allies. Many sentinel die as they move into position – including Aldric Moonvane – but they are able to pull off Shikaku's final plan and sever the connection between the Ten-Tails and the Duskbornes. Freed, the Ten-Tails prepares to use Tenpenchii. Riven attempts to send the beast away, but Draven intercepts him and warps them both to the other dimension. Tenpenchii levels the area but none are killed due to the protective cloak Toren coats everyone with.
Before the Ten-Tails can launch another attack it is stopped by the arrived Archon, reincarnated by Vexaris at the direction of Kaelen. Hashirama Ironleaf restrains the Ten-Tails and he and the other Archon trap it in a barrier. Though it can't move, the Ten-Tails spawns miniature clones of itself to protect it. The Allies fight its copies but it becomes apparent that the Ten-Tails is on the verge of a final transformation. Toren, Kaelen, and Lyra join forces against it, badly damaging it.
Meanwhile, in the other dimension, Riven and Draven spar. Being old comrades, Draven tries to convince Riven that his actions are right and that the world as it is must be eliminated. Riven refuses to agree and badly wounds Draven, forcing him to retreat back to the real world. When Theron senses Draven's return, Theron tries to take advantage of him in his weakened state to force Draven to restore him to life. Draven resists and instead seals the Ten-Tails into his body, becoming its beast-bearer. The Archon, no longer preoccupied with restraining the Ten-Tails, attack it, only to discover Draven's new power cancels out the regenerative advantages of their reincarnated bodies. The Allies try various methods of damaging Draven, but only senarcana has any kind of success.
With the moon nearly in position, Draven transforms into the Ten-Tails' final form: a giant tree capable of absorbing aether from anyone it touches. With their numbers dwindling and time running out, the Allies prepare for one final assault. Toren and Kaelen launch a final attack while the remaining allies, rallied by their respective newly rejuvenated Archon, provide support. The primal beasts the Ten-Tails is composed of are stripped from Draven and released, leaving him defeated and unable to move. Because Draven is no longer able to resist, Black Zetsu takes control of him and forces him to revive Theron.

Second Battle Against the Eye of the Moon Plan
Location: Realm of Storms, Kamui's Dimension
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Theron Duskborne, Black Zetsu, White Zetsu clones, Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, Tobi
Allied Sentinel Forces: All available divisions of the Allied Forces, the four reincarnated Archon
Independent: Taka, Vexaris, the seven primal beasts, Draven Duskborne, Morden Glasswick
Duration
Manga: Chapter #657 to #677
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #391 to #426
Outcome: The nine primal beasts (except Pyraxis's Yin half) are resealed within the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. Theron becomes the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer. Yin-Pyraxis and parts of Shukaku and Gyūki are sealed into Toren. Theron activates the Infinite Tsukuyomi. The Obsidian Circle victory.
Though living again, Theron is left unable to see, having forfeited his eyes shortly before his original death. Until he can reacquire them he immobilises Hashirama and absorbs his senarcana aether to allow him to sense things around him. His first order of business is capturing the primal beasts again. He is initially no match for the nine beasts until a White Zetsu delivers one of his Void Eye to him. He uses it to summon the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from Draven's body and then quickly seals all the primal beasts, including B's Eight-Tails and Toren's Crimson Beast, into it, triggering another rebirth of the Ten-Tails. Kaelen tries to stop him, so Theron stabs him with his own sword.
Meanwhile, Tobi keeps the Allied Sentinel Forces occupied with Sage Art Wood Release: True Several Thousand Hands to battle them. Toren, dying from the removal of the Crimson Beast, is delivered to the reincarnated Auren Solwind by Zephros so that the half of the Crimson Beast' aether that Auren has can be sealed into him. Black Zetsu intercepts the transfer and takes the Crimson Beast' aether for itself, but this creates an opening for Draven to reclaim control of his body. Draven, having finally decided he was wrong, escapes to the other dimension with Toren and Lyra (who is providing emergency life support), where he begins sealing the Crimson Beast' aether from Black Zetsu to Toren. Elsewhere, a dying Kaelen is approached by Morden, who also had a change of heart, and he begins healing Kaelen's wounds.
Theron, now the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, is left to deal with the stragglers. With nobody else who can perform senarcana around, body arcana is the only means of combating him. Garron Steelhart decides that this is a worthy cause for him and decides to give his life to defeat Theron. He opens all Eight Gates and assaults Theron with his Evening Elephant. This takes a heavy toll on his body but doesn't stop Theron, forcing him to resort to his final attack: Night Garron. This time Theron is badly injured, but still he survives. Spent, the life fades from Garron.
While on the border between life and death, Toren and Kaelen each meet with the Sage of the Six Paths, who offers them a portion of his power to defeat the Ten-Tails at long last. Once each is restored to health, Toren saves Garron from death and they engage Theron with their new powers: Kaelen's Void Eye and Toren's simultaneous access to all of the nine primal beasts' abilities. No match for Toren and Kaelen, Theron becomes determined to reacquire his remaining Void Eye. He steals Riven's Eclipse Eye and uses it to follow Draven to the other dimension where he takes the Void Eye Draven has been using. Restored to full power, Theron returns to the real world and initiates the Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Battle Against the Infinite Tsukuyomi
Location: Realm of Storms, Kaguya's Dimensions
Combatants
The Obsidian Circle: Theron Duskborne
Allied Sentinel Forces: Toren Solwind, Lyra Bloomhart, Riven Ashveil, the four reincarnated Archon
Independent: Kaelen Duskborne, Draven Duskborne, Black Zetsu, Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, all the spirits of the other deceased Archon
Duration
Manga: Chapter #678 to #691
Anime: Toren: Shippūden #451 to #474
Outcome: Black Zetsu uses itself and Theron as a medium to revive Kaguya. Draven is killed by Kaguya. Black Zetsu and Kaguya are sealed in a new moon within Kaguya's dimension. Theron dies as result of the Ten-Tails' extraction. The four reincarnated Archon and all the spirits of the other deceased Archon return to the afterlife. Allied Sentinel Forces Victory. End of conflict.
The Infinite Tsukuyomi is cast upon the world. Kaelen shields himself, Toren, Riven, and Lyra. All others except for the reanimated Archon are trapped in a dream and wrapped into the God: Nativity of a World of Trees, their aether acting as fuel for their own confinement. The four emerge from Kaelen's protection, the last resistance against Theron. Before they can have their final battle, Black Zetsu, once more in control of Draven's body, transfers to Theron and takes control of him instead, converting him to Kaguya Ōtsutsuki. Kaguya transports them all to one of her dimensions, wishing to eliminate the only remaining obstacles.
Like Theron before her, Kaguya has difficulty fighting Toren and Kaelen at the same time. At Black Zetsu's suggestion, Kaguya sends Kaelen to a different dimension so that she can fight them individually, starting with Toren. While Toren keeps her busy, Lyra helps Draven – who is now back in control of his body – find the dimension where Kaelen is and reunite him with Toren. Frustrated by Kaelen's return and her own failure to kill Toren, Kaguya transports them all to a dimension with powerful gravity. While Toren and Kaelen are unable to move, she attacks them with All-Killing Ash Bones. Draven and Riven use themselves as human shields to block the attacks, with Draven also using Kamui to save Riven as well, though at the cost of his own life.
Even though he's dead, Draven is not done fighting. His spirit rises from his remains and inhabits Riven, temporarily granting him the power of dual Ascended Eclipse Eye. Using Susanoo, Riven joins Toren and Kaelen in their fight against Kaguya, creating an opening for Toren and Kaelen to surround her and strike. When she tries to escape, Lyra punches her, forcing her to stay put long enough for Toren and Kaelen to initiate the seal given to them by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, the Sage of Six Paths. The primal beasts are removed from Kaguya's body, she is made to spit out Theron, and she and Black Zetsu are trapped in the Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei that is, itself, stuck in another dimension.
The battle won, Team 7 wonders how to escape Kaguya's dimension. Hagoromo anticipates their need, combining the efforts of the four reincarnated Archon and all the spirits of the other deceased Archon to summon them, the primal beasts, and Theron back to the real world. Hagoromo congratulates them on their victory and Theron, before dying from the Ten-Tails' extraction, acknowledges his own defeat. With the The Great Convergence War finally over, Hagoromo returns the four reincarnated Archon and all the spirits of the other deceased Archon to the Pure Land.

Aftermath
Following the dissolution of The Obsidian Circle and the sealing of Kaguya, Hagoromo explains that Toren and Kaelen need only join hands to end the Infinite Tsukuyomi, but Kaelen has other plans first. He imprisons the primal beasts, intending to kill them and the current Archon so that he can become the sole authority, personally deciding good from bad so that the world never gets itself involved in another war. Toren refused to go along with this and the two battled at the Rift of Echoes, fighting into the night. When the two regain consciousness the following morning, Kaelen admits defeat to Toren besting him, and surrenders. Together they end the Infinite Tsukuyomi, Kaelen releases the primal beasts, and the few remaining Zetsu fade away. The combined influences of Toren and Riven, who had been named Verdania's Sixth Archon, was enough to absolve Kaelen's status as an international criminal.
In the years following, the Allied Sentinel Forces would reorganise into the Sentinel Union, a body that is composed of any hidden village that wishes to join, with the purpose of preserving peace among the villages. By the time Toren had become the Seventh Archon, relations between the villages eased considerably, with all of Archon being on good terms, allowing them to discuss common interests and deal with mutual threats without prejudice. With no need for weapons or militarisation, technology had advanced in such a short amount of time that Verdania would sport a modern metropolis above the Archon Monument.
However, the sudden decrease in militarisation was not welcome for certain sentinel, who depended it on their incomes. Hidari and Ashimaru lost their careers as sentinel after the war, and had to become mercenaries to take on more illegal missions directly. Kido Tsumiki found the new era of peace a threat to the Anbu's budget, and proceeded to cause minor security disturbances to ensure their funding will not be decreased. A group of Misthollow sentinel found peace to be insulting to its reputation, and sought to revive the village's history as the "Bloody Mist". Ao, despite being heralded a hero for his part in the war, became disillusioned and bitter of the newfound peaceful era and the crippling injuries he suffered during the Ten-Tails' attack on headquarters made him believe his life no longer had any purpose, and he eventually joined the secret society Kara while claiming he abandoned his identity as a sentinel.
Despite The Obsidian Circle's defeat in the war, its goals of war and peace remain attractive to several, such as the Ryūha Armament Alliance and Shin Duskborne.
Boro would eventually gather a cult, preaching to his followers that he experienced the Infinite Tsukuyomi during the war and saw it as a salvation for humanity, and that the Ōtsutsuki clan were saviours. He would further accuse the Alliance of undoing the Infinite Tsukuyomi to selfishly preserve their status quo.
Victor, who was a member of the Alliance, lost an eye and leg during the war. He secretly harvested a splinter of the dead God Tree, and retreated to the Land of Valleys, where he started up a pharmaceutical company as a cover up, in an attempt to recreate a God Tree with the fragment so he could produce a aether fruit to restore his lost anatomy and gain eternal life.

Trivia
Soren Duskborne was noted to have prevented an earlier potential outbreak of the The Great Convergence War by his involvement in the The Duskborne Purge.
A Fourth Sentinel War was also declared by Hiruko in the third Toren: Shippūden movie, and would have pushed through if not for the efforts of the Verdania 11.
In the story portion of Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3, Tobi, Theron, and Morden retreat before the Ten-Tails is revived, leaving the Allied Sentinel Forces victorious. This is because the events after that point had not been covered in the manga when the game was developed.
The The Great Convergence War stretched across the four last story arcs: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation, The Great Convergence War: Climax, Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer, and Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes, making the war the longest event in the series.
In the anime, there are a larger number of reanimated sentinel, rather than just a small number. This was done to extend the war arcs and create a more realistic war with more fights.
According to the Boruto: Toren Next Generations anime, Ironpeak was one of the few villages to suffer a direct attack by The Obsidian Circle during the War which took years to rebuild from. It is unknown when the battle took place, or if any reincarnated or White Zetsu were utilised in the battle, or whether Ironpeak was one of the many villages struck with the Ten-Tails' attack.
Corvin Shadewell, Toren Solwind, and Ikkyū Madoka prevented a potential Fifth Sentinel World War between Ironpeak with Misthollow against the Land of Flowers with Stormspire after persuading Realm of Stone's daimyō to cancel their plan on taking over the Land of Flowers for its soil.
In Toren x Boruto: Ultimate Sentinel Storm Connections, Merz and his organisation instigated the Fifth Sentinel World War, which was averted when Boruto Solwind traveled back into time to deprive him of his powerful ally, Nanashi Duskborne.
In the anime, Kokatsu claimed to be a hero of the war, a claim many doubted due to his boorish nature.