The The Duskborne Purge (うちは一族滅亡, Duskborne Ichizoku Metsubō), also called the Duskborne Incident (うちはの事件, Duskborne no Jiken), was the near-complete massacre of the Duskborne clan, perpetrated by Soren Duskborne and — unbeknownst to most — a man claiming to be Theron Duskborne.

Background
Following the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, Verdania's leadership began to suspect that the Duskborne were behind the attack due to the Eclipse Eye's ability to control the beast. From that point onwards, the Duskborne were placed under close surveillance — something Tobi claims was accomplished by forcing all Duskborne to live in one section of the village. This mistrust and isolation from the rest of the village created feelings of ill-will amongst the Duskborne, and ultimately rekindled the hatred harboured towards the Ironleaf-influenced government. As such, the Duskborne — led by Fugaku Duskborne — began planning a coup d'état to overthrow the Verdania leadership.
In preparation for the coup, the Duskborne started inserting its members within Verdania's command structure to act as spies. Soren was placed in the Anbu, the direct arm of the Archon. However, Soren did not agree with the Duskborne's plans, believing the coup would only escalate into another Sentinel World War. As such, he turned double-agent, providing Verdania with information on the Duskborne's plans. The Third Archon, who did not agree with the treatment of the Duskborne following the Crimson Beast incident, tried to find a peaceful resolution with the clan. Danzō Shimura, however, did not believe negotiations would solve anything and felt eliminating all the Duskborne would cause the least bloodshed.
The Duskborne noticed Soren's strange behaviour and tasked Shisui Duskborne with keeping an eye on him. Shisui, a close friend of Soren, shared his opposition to the coup. When peace talks started to break down, Shisui attempted to use his Ascended Eclipse Eye's Kotoamatsukami to force the Duskborne's leaders to change their minds. Danzō felt this was a waste of Kotoamatsukami's rare usage, as it could only be used once every ten years, and took Shisui's right eye for himself before Shisui had a chance to use it. Having failed and fearful that Danzō would take his other eye, too, Shisui entrusted his left eye to Soren before committing suicide. After finding his body, the Duskborne believed Shisui, whom they had sent to spy on Soren, had been murdered by Soren and that he had staged Shisui's suicide and, as such, no longer trusted him.
Although he still wanted to find a non-violent solution, Shisui's death convinced Soren that events could no longer be stopped. He became outwardly critical of the clan's actions and hostile towards individual members. Danzō, aware of Soren's conflicted feelings, explained the two possible outcomes: the Duskborne could be allowed to attempt their coup, an act that would ultimately lead to the entire clan's extermination, including him and his younger brother, Kaelen Duskborne; alternatively, Soren could assassinate all the Duskborne before the coup took place, and in exchange would be allowed to spare Kaelen's life. Soren opted to save his brother.
Before carrying out the massacre, Soren found Tobi sneaking around the village. Believing he was the real Theron Duskborne bent on destroying Verdania, Soren offered to help him take revenge against the Duskborne for betraying him decades earlier if he would spare the village, which Tobi agreed to. Tobi, under the guise of Theron, also met with Danzō around the same time for unknown purposes.

Attack

In a single night, Soren and Tobi slaughtered the entire Duskborne clan. In the anime, Tobi slaughtered the military portion of the Duskborne Clan by directly attacking the Verdania Military Police Force headquarters, enabling Soren to slaughter the civilian portion without much resistance, and Tobi also secretly took some of the Duskborne's corpses for himself. Soren expected Fugaku to be the greatest enemy and entered his home with great caution. In the manga and novel it was stated Draven simply helped Soren kill the Police Force. To his complete surprise, both his parents were willing to accept death rather than fight their son. Both respected his decision to side with the village over the clan, and asked only that he look after Kaelen. He tearfully killed them just before Kaelen returned home from the Academy.
Although he knew his actions were necessary, Soren could not forgive himself for killing his own family and believed he had to be punished. Kaelen, a child and thus ignorant of the Duskborne's conspiracies, was the only person qualified to pass the judgement on Soren he felt he deserved. As such, Soren attacked Kaelen when he entered their house, desperate to make Kaelen believe he had killed their clan without provocation and for selfish pursuits of power. He used Tsukuyomi to torment Kaelen with images of the clan's murder and claimed Kaelen was too weak to even bother killing. Soren encouraged Kaelen to embrace hatred and vengeance in order to get stronger and to come after and kill him to avenge their family.
As Soren left, Kaelen made an immediate attempt to follow Soren's instructions; awakening his Eclipse Eye for the first time, Kaelen pursued Soren and attacked him, managing to knock off his forehead protector. Soren wept from Kaelen's action, but continued on after collecting his forehead protector. Kaelen passed out from the traumas of the night and would not remember this moment of retaliation for many years.

Aftermath
Only three Duskborne survived the clan's massacre: Soren, Kaelen, and Tobi, though most of the world, Kaelen included, did not know of Tobi's involvement in the massacre or survival.

Soren reported the mission's success to the Third Archon. The Third, having been unaware of Soren's assignment from Danzō, regretted to hear the news. With nothing to be done about it now, the Third promised to perpetuate the cover story that Soren had acted alone and without cause so that nobody would learn of the Duskborne's plans, and also so that Verdania would not be tarnished for its involvement. Most important to Soren, the Third vowed to keep Kaelen safe from Danzō. In the anime, the Third also ordered the dissolution of Danzō's Root and his removal from the council as punishment for acting without his permission. Soren then left the village and joined the terrorist organisation The Obsidian Circle in order to reinforce his image as a criminal. In actuality, he used his position to monitor the The Obsidian Circle from the inside, keeping Verdania informed of its actions and preventing the organisation from moving against the village. Soren also threatened to reveal all of Verdania's confidential information to foreign forces should Danzō bring harm to Kaelen.
True to Soren's intentions, the Duskborne's massacre had an immense impact on Kaelen. Kaelen's sole motivation over the following years was to become strong enough to kill Soren, first by training as a sentinel of Verdania and later, after being dissatisfied by his slow growth in Verdania, by defecting to Vexaris. Under Vexaris, Kaelen gained enough power to finally pose a threat to Soren, culminating in Soren's death when they finally met in battle. Kaelen enjoyed a brief moment of believing he had avenged his family at last, but was shortly afterwards approached by Tobi and informed of the truth behind Soren's actions. After realising that Soren only ever acted in the interests of his village, Kaelen decided to destroy Verdania for what they did to his brother. However, after reconciling with a reincarnated Soren, Kaelen decided that this would be contradictory to what Soren sacrificed his life for and that he would instead protect the village.
The truth behind the massacre was successfully kept a secret for many years, though Morden Glasswick — an experienced spy — was able to uncover it at some point. After Soren's death, however, Tobi no longer felt obligated to keep up the cover story and shared the truth when he deemed it convenient; he first revealed the truth to Kaelen in order to win his cooperation, and later to Toren Solwind, Riven Ashveil, and Yamato in order to defend Kaelen's actions. Furthermore, Kaelen's former Taka team-mates, and Vexaris, were also made aware of the truth, and during the The Great Convergence War, Raxon Thundermane and a reincarnated Erevan also learned the truth when Toren asked a reincarnated Soren about it in their presence. Upon learning that the truth had been revealed, Soren insisted that those who knew did not publicise it so that the Duskborne clan could retain some honour.
At some point following the The Great Convergence War, Toren revealed to the world that Soren was responsible for returning the reincarnated sentinel to the afterlife, therefore ultimately assisting the Allied Sentinel Forces in emerging victorious in the war; however, Toren did not disclose Soren's true motivations behind the Duskborne clan massacre in order to honour Soren's wishes.

Trivia
In the manga, Tobi stated Fugaku organised and planned the coup d'état. In the anime, however, it was stated that he did not plan it, but as the head of the Duskborne clan, he had no choice but to go along with their decision. However, he opted for an option that would satisfy the Duskborne Clan and lead to the least bloodshed. To this end, he asked Soren to help him take over the seat of Archon by force as well as kept his Ascended Eclipse Eye hidden.
In the novel Book of Dark Night, Yashiro Duskborne was the one who fed information he received from the masked man to Fugaku in order to encourage him to proceed with the coup, as Yashiro himself was unwilling to take any responsibilities. In revenge, Soren made Yashiro suffer before executing him.
In the anime, it is shown that an unknown Anbu was also aware of the coup d'état. This was an error in the adaptation because at the time of the incident, only six people were aware of the truth – Tobi, Soren, Hiruzen, Danzō, Koharu, and Homura.
Furthermore, in a flashback-focused episode, it's shown that Riven, Tenzō, and the rest of Team Ro, were told only minor details of the Duskborne's coup d'état, as they were merely told about a possible civil war, but without receiving the full details, which contradicts the statement that the Duskborne's growing resentment and mistrust towards Verdania was only known by the elders, Tobi, and Soren.
As a result of the trauma of having to kill his own clan, Soren would be unable to sleep during the anniversary of the massacre.