This article is about the character Theron Duskborne. For the character who used Theron's name, see Draven Duskborne. For other uses, see Theron Duskborne (disambiguation).

Theron Duskborne (うちはマダラ, Duskborne Theron) was the legendary leader of the Duskborne Clan and a reincarnation of Indra Ōtsutsuki. He founded Verdania alongside his childhood friend and rival, Hashirama Ironleaf, with the intention of bringing about an era of peace. When the two couldn't agree on how to achieve that peace, they fought for control of the village, a conflict which ended in Theron's death. Theron, however, rewrote his death and went into hiding to work on his own plans. Unable to complete it in his natural life, he entrusted his knowledge and plans to Draven Duskborne shortly before his actual death. Years later, Theron would be revived during the The Great Convergence War with his goal involving the Infinite Tsukuyomi having reached fruition, only to be upended by Black Zetsu and its own ancient machinations. Finally, realising the error of his ways, he made amends with Hashirama before his final death.

Background

Theron was born during the Warring States Period, and was the eldest of Tajima Duskborne's five children. Theron and his siblings grew up on the battlefield waging constant war with the Duskborne's rivals: the Ironleaf. Three of his siblings died young, leaving Theron with only his younger brother, Izuna. Theron and Izuna became very close through their shared loss and constantly competed with each other to get stronger. This, combined with his naturally strong aether, enabled the young Theron to defeat adult Ironleaf in battle and develop a reputation as a genius.
During his infrequent downtime, Theron met a boy his own age named Hashirama. The two quickly developed a friendly rivalry, be it skipping stones or urinating in rivers. Like Theron, Hashirama was also a sentinel who had lost his brothers on the battlefield. Together they imagined a world where children like themselves wouldn't need to fight. As a precaution, Theron and Hashirama did not share their family names, but nevertheless discovered each other's identities: Theron was an Duskborne, Hashirama was a Ironleaf; it was their duty to kill each other, even if they were friends. Needing to choose between his family and his dreams of peace, Theron chose to end his friendship with Hashirama so he would have no reservations over killing him in the future, a resolve strong enough to awaken his Eclipse Eye.

Over the following years Theron and Hashirama continued to meet in combat. Theron could never defeat Hashirama — even after acquiring a Ascended Eclipse Eye — and Hashirama could never bring himself to kill someone he still considered a friend, resulting in a constant stalemate between the two that lasted decades. In time, both Theron and Hashirama became leaders of their respective clans, a position Hashirama tried to use to broker peace between them. Although some Duskborne found the offer increasingly tempting, Theron refused due to Izuna's death at the hands of Hashirama's own brother, Tobirama Ironleaf. Despite this, some Duskborne defected over to the Ironleaf clan out of self-preservation. Theron then used Izuna's eyes in order to gain "eternal" Ascended Eclipse Eye and restore his deteriorating vision. With this new power he waged one final assault against the Ironleaf and was summarily defeated. Rather than killing Theron to bring the era of war to an end, Hashirama offered to kill himself if it would stop the fighting. Theron was moved by Hashirama's gesture and finally assented to peace.

The Ironleaf, the Duskborne, and all their affiliated clans came together to found a village of peace, where children would never need to die in battle. Theron and Hashirama rekindled their childhood friendship, and Theron named that village Verdania, seeing it through leaves. But Theron's idea of peace differed from Hashirama's: where Hashirama envisioned cooperation with the other newly-formed villages, Theron desired control so the peace could never be lost, evidenced by his attacking Ironpeak's Mū and Ōnoki so that they would submit to Verdania's authority. When Hashirama was elected as Archon, Verdania's leader, Theron also became concerned for the Duskborne's future, believing this to be but the first step in the Ironleaf's dominance.

The Stone Tablet Zetsu altered had been in the Duskborne's possession for generations and was brought with them when they settled in Verdania. Through careful study, Theron was able to decipher enough of it to learn of the history of sentinel: of the endless cycle of failed peace and the destiny of battle between Duskborne and Ironleaf, but also a means of unity for the world. With this knowledge, Theron decided Verdania was a failed experiment. He tried to convince his own clan and even Hashirama of the same conclusion, but none would hear him. Theron chose to abandon the village, attacking Verdania on multiple occasions, later returning with the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox under his control to challenge Hashirama. They fought to exhaustion, and from the carnage of their battle the Rift of Echoes was formed. In the end, Theron was killed by Hashirama.

News of Theron's death spread fast and his corpse was secretly hidden to keep anyone from finding it and profiting from it. But Theron had planned ahead: he had scheduled an Izanagi to activate sometime after his death, changing reality to bring him back to life in exchange for his right eye's vision. Meanwhile, Black Zetsu had spent an unspecific length of time hiding itself inside of Theron's body, allowing it to later deceive Theron into thinking he created it. After being revived, he left a copy in place of his real body and went into hiding with a special trophy from his fight with Hashirama: a mouthful of Hashirama's flesh that he transplanted into his wounds. It was not until decades later, towards the end of Theron's natural life, that the cells had any effect, awakening the Void Eye (in the process restoring his right eye). With the Void Eye, he was able to summon the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, which he used to cultivate a mindless living clone of Hashirama from which he believed he had produced a White Zetsu Army.
Over the years, Theron had perfected his plans for peace in what he called the Eye of the Moon Plan. But as his years waned, Theron knew he couldn't complete his plans in the time he had left. So he transplanted his Void Eye into a young Erevan without the boy's knowing, intending Erevan to someday use the eyes to restore Theron to life. If Erevan was to do this, however, Theron would need an agent to act on his behalf and guide Erevan towards this ultimate goal. Theron waited, connecting himself to Demonic Statue to keep him alive until someone could be found. Theron spent this time keeping a close eye on Verdania to find a suitable pawn to take his place.

During the Third Sentinel World War, Theron found a badly injured Draven. Theron used Hashirama's cells to replace Draven's damaged extremities and placed a Forbidden Individual Curse Tag in Draven's heart as a fail-safe in case Draven ever turned against him. Until then, Theron began working towards corrupting Draven. He had Misthollow kidnap the girl Draven loved, Rin Nohara, and seal the Three-Tails into her. He then manipulated events so that Rin would die at the hand of Draven's friend, Riven Ashveil, while Draven watched. Driven to despair, Draven offered his services to Theron. Theron divulged to Draven the history of the Sage of the Six Paths and the Ten-Tails, the details of his Eye of the Moon Plan, and various techniques that Draven would need moving forward. As a final act, he left behind Black Zetsu — what he believed to be a manifestation of his will — to provide additional guidance to Draven in pursuit of this goal. With that, Theron disconnected from the Demonic Statue and, with his dying breath, entrusted Draven with his name: Theron Duskborne.

Personality

Theron's childhood was a product of the times he lived in: the constant fighting made him a perfectionist that would keep at something until he mastered it, and his triumphs on the battlefield made him very confident in his abilities and talent. Whenever one of these personality traits was challenged, as they tended to be by Hashirama, Theron's competitive streak would emerge. Theron did not mind Hashirama's influence in this regard; he believed that the only way to survive in the sentinel world was to make allies with one's enemies. His exposure to Hashirama is credited for Theron not experiencing the Duskborne's "Curse of Hatred" or at the very least, not being victimised by it as much as Izuna was and even though he claimed to have abandoned his friendship with Hashirama, Theron still held onto their friendship subconsciously. Theron's actions and beliefs were singularly focused on protecting Izuna, his only surviving brother. So long as he had Izuna, Theron was reasonable and kind, willing to make concessions for a perceived greater good.

Theron changed after Izuna's death, becoming bitter towards the Ironleaf, particularly Hashirama since he still had a brother. Embracing his clan's Curse of Hatred, he opted to die for revenge rather than compromise or forgive. Although he was briefly convinced to set aside his grief and try to replace Izuna with the collective family of Verdania, he could never shake the feeling that he was betraying Izuna's memory. The increasing isolation of himself and other Duskborne from village politics ultimately convinced him of this, causing him to fully break with any other attachments.
During his time as a Verdania sentinel, Theron did what he thought was in the village's best interests. Unlike Hashirama's compassionate methods, Theron took a merciless approach: the sentinel of Ironpeak only had purpose so long as they swore unwavering allegiance to Verdania. Since their methods were so different, Theron hated to hear Hashirama's name during diplomatic discussions. After his defection from Verdania, Theron's priorities became centred around the Eye of the Moon Plan, manipulating countless others in order to satisfy his own goals and putting in place multiple layers of contingencies so that nobody could ever diverge from his own intentions. Despite this, Theron genuinely believed this plan would in fact, benefit the world and simply followed an "ends justifies the means" principle.
As he valued only power and possessed so much of it, Theron therefore disliked to waste it on unworthy causes or unchallenging opponents, claiming disgust when he was forced to.
Theron loved fighting above all else: the sights, the sounds, even the taste of his own blood, occasionally describing his battles as "dances"; he felt being reincarnated deprived him of the full experience. Yet he was very disciplined in a fight, never allowing his failed plans or attacks to upset him, never letting superior numbers or power intimidate him, and always willing to do whatever must be done to gain victory. Although he sometimes imposed limitations on himself, such as not using certain techniques more than once, he was willing to "lower" himself with unbecoming tactics or excessive displays in order to change tactics and exploit advantages. He was perfectly aware of his talents and did not feign modesty, bluntly stating when he was stronger than his opponents and belittling them when they continued to defy him. Conversely, if he was proven wrong or somebody posed a legitimate challenge to him, he would admit it, and apologise for previous remarks if necessary. In addition, if such an opponent is about to die, he would show them the ultimate respect by taking the time and effort to finish them off himself, even if said person is going to die on their own. Stemming from this, he feels insulted if he knows an opponent isn't using their full power against him, even if he knows it will result in their death. He also held the Ironleaf to a higher standard in terms of power due to his encounters with Hashirama, stating a weak Ironleaf disgusts him more than a weak sentinel of any kind.

One of the exceptions Theron makes was Hashirama. Their years of rivalry left Theron with competing feelings of respect and resentment for Hashirama. Theron considered Hashirama the only opponent worthy of his time and would postpone his own plans if it meant prolonging his time to fight with Hashirama without issue. Despite this, Theron is quite open-minded about recognising other strong individuals besides Hashirama, as when he declares Garron Steelhart as the strongest body arcana user he's ever faced.
Despite his prowess and intellect, Theron is not without moments of recklessness. When he was brought back to life, he showed no hesitation in absorbing Hashirama's senarcana aether while admitting he expected to have some difficulty controlling it due to having no prior training.

In the later years of his developing the Eye of the Moon Plan, Theron became pessimistic about human nature, believing the cycle of battle to be inescapable. He also came to believe that humanity and the world are incapable of changing from what they were in the past. He believed the current, "worthless" reality was built too much on the idea of winning and losing. For this reason he was deeply committed to his plan, so much that he would prematurely end a fight he was enjoying or kill any threat, even his own clansmen, for the sake of its success. Despite this, Theron was simply acting on what he believed would benefit humanity as a whole, showing his time in Verdania did indeed influence his actions and he wasn't acting simply out of bloodlust after Izuna's death. His plan's ultimate failure made him see its errors: breaking free of his Curse of Hatred, and admitted the superiority of Hashirama's methods for peace. He and Hashirama were thus able to reconcile their friendship in the moments just before his death.

Appearance

Theron was a fair-skinned man with spiky, black hair that had a slight blue tint to it. In his childhood, his hair was chin-length that parted to frame the sides of his face. His casual attire consisted of a blue long sleeve shirt and white pants. While on the battlefield he wore the standard Duskborne outfit: a black shirt with a high-collar left slightly open and the clan's crest on its back, with blue pants and bandages around his shins. Around his waist he had a white sash that held a sack, presumably containing his sentinel tools. Later, his sash was replaced by a belt, adorned with pouches and various weapons. He also wore another sash strapped across his shoulders which he used to hold his swords.
As an adult, Theron is fairly tall while his hair grew to waist-length with shoulder-length bangs framing the sides of his face, covering most of his right eye. He has several scars throughout his body. Although still relatively young, more prominent creases had developed under each of his eyes. At times, he wore crimson armour with numerous metal plates, forming protective guards along his chest, waist, shoulders and thighs. Most of the time, however, he continued wearing the same basic Duskborne outfit: a blue high-collared, long sleeve mantle that splits down the lower half and a simple, light-brown obi and a belt. During battle, he often carried an orange-brown gunbai which had a long black chain running up it. At one point, he wore a Verdania forehead protector. The anime also shows him wearing a metal belt, as well as a brown leather sash to hold some of his other weapons, and a pair of belt sashes to hold two of his swords.

In his old age, Theron became extremely worn and emaciated, with his hair turned thin and white, and lost all his teeth. He wore a simple black outfit and used his kama as a makeshift cane. When Theron was reincarnated his body's youth was restored, albeit with the generic effect of gaining grey sclerae and minor cracks all over his body. These disappear once he is properly revived.
After becoming the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Theron gains the appearance of an Ōtsutsuki; having taupe hair (white in the anime), pale grey skin (pale mint in the anime), and he became enveloped by a cloak of aether that manifests into physical clothing: a full-bodied black garment with black pants, gloves, and boots, over which he wore a flowing white robe with six black magatama markings across his chest and the familiar pattern of a black Void Eye and nine black magatama markings in rows of three on his back. A pale grey horn-like protrusions grew out of his left temple and overlapped his forehead akin to a protector with an upward-curve on the right temple, giving him an overall appearance very similar to that of the Sage of the Six Paths. After absorbing the recreated Ten-Tails produced by Draven, Theron obtained additional black magatama markings around his sleeve cuffs and the rim of his robe. He reverts to his former appearance after the Ten-Tails is removed from his body.

Abilities

Theron was one of the most powerful sentinel in history, recognised as the strongest Duskborne ever produced even decades after his death, and considered potentially the strongest sentinel when he was revived. A child prodigy, he killed several adult Ironleaf before he had awakened his Eclipse Eye. He was the only one able to push Hashirama Ironleaf, a "God of Sentinel", to his absolute limits. When Draven operated under Theron's name, fear of Theron's power forced the Five Great Sentinel Countries, and the neutral Land of Iron, to band together, as it was noted Theron's name itself was power. Theron was able to, respectively, singlehandedly defeat the Five Archon and the nine primal beasts. He was also confident he could overpower Draven - then the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer - something it took the combined Allied Sentinel Forces to accomplish.

Aether and Physical Prowess

Even by Duskborne standards, Theron was born with very powerful aether, described as very foul and evil. His large aether reserves allowed him to fight nonstop for 24 hours before collapsing, and in his old age, summon the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path from its cage in the moon. His aether control could perform complicated techniques with a single hand seal. He could also quickly absorb and synchronise senarcana aether with his own and enter Elder Form, despite having no prior training in senarcana. Even when distributing his aether among 25 wood clones, each still had enough power to threaten the Five Archon.
Theron was incredibly skilled in body arcana. Against the Fourth Division, he calmly defeated thousands of opponents with physical combat, showing exceptional agility, reflexes, and coordination to disarm, dodge, and counter attacks from many directions at once. He could strike with precision before his opponent could react, and he could overpower individuals twice his size. Theron demonstrated exceptional reactions, strength, and durability during the The Great Convergence War. While still an Edo Tensei, he reacted to and withstood a kick from Maelis, who was teleported at lightspeed to the battlefield, landing on his feet unharmed. He also blocked an attack from the Fourth Storm Archon, displaying both reaction speed and durability against one of the fastest sentinel alive.
Theron withstood a massive Rasenstar blade from Elder Form Toren, confirming his ability to endure high-level aether-based attacks. After being fully revived and regaining his past lifetime’s strength and physicality, as noted by Hashirama, He obliterated the legendary Hashirama's technique, Sage Art: Gate of the Great God, and destroyed Sai’s sealing arcana. Theron forced Elder Form Toren to block his attack, overpowering him and sending him flying several meters. 

Body Modifications

When Theron was reincarnated, Morden Glasswick modified him to be "even greater than when he was alive". He was restored to his physical prime while also retaining the abilities he only had in his old age. In addition, a pale replica of Hashirama's face existed on Theron's left pectoral region, which acted as a medium to channel senarcana aether into Elder Form. It also let him heal most of his injuries in seconds, and allows him the usage of Wood Release. For severe injuries he could not heal, like amputation, Theron could replace his limb with material from a White Zetsu's body. Stemming from having Hashirama's cells in his body, Theron's life-force became powerful enough to not immediately die from having all the primal beasts extracted from his body.

Shadow Arcana

Theron was well-versed in a variety of shadow arcana styles: he could use juinarcana powerful enough to restrict the target's actions, hide within surfaces to avoid damage and traverse the battlefield unnoticed, and through an unorthodox use of the Phantom Double Technique, fake his death by having a clone act as his corpse. In the anime, Theron showed the ability to levitate.
Theron was an adept sensor, being able to detect others' aether signature countries away, determine a person's clan and the nature of their kekkei genkai, and even differentiate species. When amplified by Elder Form, he could even fight whilst blind by locating targets and dodging attacks through his sensory perception, even avoiding a Flying Thunder God Slash. Also with Elder Form, Theron's pain tolerance was high, as he neither flinched from Kaelen stabbing his right arm, the primal beasts' assault, nor from the loss of his arm.

Bukiarcana

Theron could use many weapons, such as giant star blade, a kama, chains with weights, a kusarigama, and hand-held star blade. He also demonstrated proficiency with swords while fighting the Fourth Division. His trademark weapon was his gunbai, with which he could shield himself and redirect attacks, or wield it like a mace or flail. He could slice through the giant roots of the Ten-Tails' tree form with it.

Nature Transformation

Theron was able to utilise all five basic nature transformations, as well as Yin–Yang Release. An Duskborne, he had a natural affinity for Fire Release, being able to produce a massive flames that required several Water Release users together to repel, launch a volley of dragon-shaped fireballs, or cover an area with ash as a smokescreen. In the anime, Theron could create powerful gusts with his gunbai to repel an entire platoon. Later in his life, he used Yin–Yang Release to amplify White Zetsu, and pour his will into black receivers which could restrict and control targets.

After transplanting Hashirama's DNA, which was later augmented further by Morden, Theron could use Wood Release, a mixture of water and earth-natured aether, with his skill and power comparable to Hashirama himself. He could create gigantic flowering trees to render foes unconscious, wood clone, and wood dragons which could bind targets and drain their aether. With Hashirama's cells, Theron could also produce roots to connect to and gain limited control of the Ten-Tails. After becoming the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, he could use Yin Release to create lightning bolts, and Storm Release – a mixture of water and lightning-natured aether – to create energy beams that could cut through the Six Paths Rods. 

Dōarcana
Eclipse Eye

Theron awakened his Eclipse Eye as a child, with one tomoe in each of his eyes. By adulthood, his Eclipse Eye was fully developed and active near-constantly. Theron's mastery over the Eclipse Eye surpassed every other member of the Duskborne clan in his natural lifetime. Only he could tell the difference between a shadow or wood clone, and the original. With brief eye contact, Theron could place targets under mind arcana and paralyse them or relay information. He could even trap the Crimson Beast, and summon it as a powerful tool in battle. By programming one of his eyes to activate Izanagi after his death, he was able to alter reality and resurrect himself.

Ascended Eclipse Eye

Theron was the first Duskborne known to have awakened the Ascended Eclipse Eye. Theron knew about other users' Mangekyō techniques, and was also capable of discerning the mechanics of these techniques with brief observation. The "straight tomoe" (直巴, Choku Tomoe) of his Eternal Ascended Eclipse Eye granted him fluidity in his movements when fighting.

Having awakened both his Mangekyō, Theron could use Susanoo, which he could use even without his eyes in their sockets. The ribcage could withstand an Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike and A's strength. He could produce a legged humanoid Susanoo. His Susanoo wielded up to four undulating blades that could be thrown and controlled remotely. He could also fire Yasaka Magatama of varying sizes. When fully produced, Theron would hover inside Susanoo to grant him a greater range of movement.

With his eyesight deteriorating from overuse, he replaced his original eyes with Izuna's, restoring his vision and gaining the Eternal Ascended Eclipse Eye. With it, he could "stabilise" Susanoo into its Complete Body form, causing it to resemble a tengu with outer armour that was nearly impenetrable. A secondary pair of arms wielded sheathed katana which could be used to bisect mountains with their mere shockwaves. According to himself, its power was comparable to that of the primal beasts, and no one was said to have lived to see it a second time. Theron's Complete Body Susanoo uses its secondary set of arms for attack and defence rather than flight. He was also able to shape his Susanoo into an armour for Pyraxis, which synergised their abilities.
After absorbing the God Tree into himself and stealing Riven Ashveil's Ascended Eclipse Eye, he was able to use Kamui on himself immediately to reach Draven and retrieve his Void Eye still with him. Though brief, Theron's use of the eye was notable on account of being able to use Kamui while the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, something Draven himself couldn't do.

Void Eye

Years after infusing himself with Hashirama's DNA and unknowingly mixing Indra's and Asura's aether, Theron's Eclipse Eye evolved into the Void Eye. As the eyes' original owner, only he could use them to their maximum power. He was able to switch between both dōarcana. With the Void Eye, Theron could use all of the abilities of the Six Paths Technique, such as the Preta Path to absorb aether and the Deva Path to perform Chibaku Tensei. He could also use the Outer Path to create aether chains that could restrain all nine primal beasts and black receivers for various melee and supplementary purposes. Through the usage of his Void Eye with that of his Eclipse Eye, Theron could summon meteorites to cause widespread destruction.
While under the Impure World Reincarnation, Theron was unable to use the full extent of his Void Eye's abilities. After being revived and obtaining one of his actual eyes, he could summon and control the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, seal the Ten-Tails inside himself, and generate a corporeal invisible shadow to aid him in battle. While Theron was in Elder Form and further boosted by Pyraxis's aether, this shadow was powerful enough to knock down the primal beasts. With access to both of his Void Eye, Theron could produce at least four shadows to aid him.

Rinne Eclipse Eye

As the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer and with both of his Void Eye, Theron approached the moon and awakened a Rinne Eclipse Eye on his forehead, which he could use to reflect the eye onto the moon, allowing him to cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi and trap everyone, aside from himself, in an infinite mind arcana.

Beast-Bearer Transformations
Main article: Beast-Bearer Forms

After sealing the Ten-Tails into his body, Theron had immediately gained complete control over the beast, which was stronger than when it was first revived due to having all of the Eight-Tails and half of the Crimson Beast' aether sealed in it, leading to his power being noted to feel stronger than Draven's, which only had a portion of the Eight and Crimson Beast' aether. As such, only sentinel using all of the Eight Gates or the Six Paths Aether are able to compete with him. In this form, Theron could fly and his physical abilities were enhanced, being fast enough to react to the Flying Thunder God Technique and Kamui, and durable enough to survive the Night Garron. After absorbing the tree form of the Ten-Tails, his regenerative powers could circumvent bisection and restore his body, causing him to declare himself immortal. He could also harness natural energy to enhance his various techniques, as well as cast the Infinite Tsukuyomi and God: Nativity of a World of Trees after he awakened the Rinne Eclipse Eye.

With his transformation, Theron obtained Truth-Seeking Balls that floated behind him in a circular formation, which were comprised of the five basic nature transformations and Yin–Yang Release. Their aether is highly malleable and versatile, such that he could use them as high speed projectiles, protective barriers, and various weapons, such as a shakujō. With Yin–Yang Release, the balls could nullify all shadow arcana they came into contact with.

Intelligence

Theron's years of experience on the battlefield honed his strategic ingenuity. He could quickly devise a number of approaches and could switch approaches immediately. The longer he spent against a particular opponent, the less he needed backup tactics, as he could eventually predict what they would do and identify literal or psychological weaknesses to exploit. He could form and verify any theories he comes up with using small details. In addition to his sheer adaptability, Theron was knowledgeable on a large variety of individuals and abilities, and thus could identify techniques when used and react with the most appropriate counter to them. Likewise, Theron was an excellent teacher, having single-handedly trained the young Draven into a powerful sentinel comparable to himself.
A researcher, he experimented on and cultivated a clone flower through the Demonic Statue of Outer Path, and from it, he created a life-support system for himself. He had enough medical knowledge to transplant eyes, treat severe injuries, and could replace destroyed body parts with White Zetsu matter.

Part II
The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

Tobi, acting under Theron's name, moves into the final stages of the Eye of the Moon Plan by initiating a The Great Convergence War. Before the war's start, Morden Glasswick approaches Tobi to try and form an alliance. When Tobi asks what will happen if he refuses, Morden resurrects Theron to show he knows that Tobi is not the true Theron and forces him to accept. Tobi reluctantly agrees and Morden de-summons Theron.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

During the The Great Convergence War, Morden decides to use Theron against the Allied Sentinel Forces and uses Mū as a medium to summon him to the battlefield. When he first becomes aware of his surroundings, Theron believes he has been brought back by Erevan's Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique but soon realises that he instead has been brought back with the Impure World Reincarnation. Morden speaks through Mū, introduces himself, and explains recent developments in the world and Tobi's current actions. After Morden points out that he has restored Theron to a state beyond his prime, Theron tests his body by tearing through the Fourth Division, thinning its numbers. The Fourth Division's initial attempts to stop Theron fail as he protects himself with Susanoo. When the Fifth Sand Archon, Third Stone Archon, and one of Toren Solwind's shadow clones combine efforts, Theron is forced to activate his Void Eye and absorb the attack.

Realising his enemies were too dangerous for him to hold back to basic shadow arcana and body arcana, Theron pulls down a meteorite from the atmosphere. When the Sand Archon and Stone Archon successfully stop it, Theron adds a second meteorite to his attack, both of which fall upon and devastate the Fourth Division. With most of the Fourth Division dead, Theron questions Morden about just how far off-plan Tobi has gone. Because Morden doesn't actually know much about the plan, Theron is left to check things for himself and tries to summon the Crimson Beast, only to discover it's sealed in a beast-bearer, specifically Toren. Despite knowing the current Toren was a clone, he decided to delay his plans to test out his new powers, namely, the Wood Release: Nativity of Trees which Toren's clone barely countered. He then moves in to finish off the remainder of the Fourth Division but is repelled by the arrival of the Fifth Archon, the Fifth Mist Archon, and the Fourth Storm Archon. The five Archon combine forces against Theron and propel him from the immediate area.

By the time he returns, Toren's shadow clone is gone and the five Archon remain his only opponents. They battle for some time, with Theron equaling and besting the Archon's efforts. When he is hit with the Stone Archon's Dust Release: Detachment of the Primitive World Technique, Theron's armour is torn away, revealing the implant of Hashirama's face on his chest. Theron laments Hashirama's legacy that these Archon have inherited, having been completely unimpressed by their attacks, particularly those of the Archon, Hashirama's granddaughter. Theron then creates twenty-five copies of himself and has them each activate their Susanoo.

By nightfall, the Archon are still alive and are able to pool their efforts so successfully that he is nearly sealed. Finally impressed by their display, Theron responds by summoning his perfected Susanoo. Before he can use it to kill the Archon, his Susanoo starts to fade and Theron is engulfed in light. Theron realises that Morden has elsewhere released him from the Impure World Reincarnation and his soul is returning to the afterlife. Theron responds by performing the hand seals to rescind the Impure World Reincarnation contract that Morden has over him, enabling him to return to his immortal body without further interference from a summoner. Now able to do whatever he likes and bored with the Archon, Theron decides to go find Toren and reclaim the Crimson Beast. The Archon try to block his escape.

After defeating the five Archon, Theron finds and reunites with Draven while he's engaged in combat with Toren, Raxon Thundermane, Riven Ashveil, and Garron Steelhart. Theron notices the Demonic Statue undergoing a premature transformation into the Ten-Tails and scolds Draven for being too hasty. After Draven returns Theron's gunbai, Theron creates a wood dragon in an attempt to capture Toren and Raxon Thundermane and complete the Ten-Tails. He at one point manages to restrain and drain B of his energy but is overwhelmed by Garron's Daytime Tiger. The Ten-Tails is revived before he can recover, forcing Theron to make do. He and Draven leap onto the Ten-Tails' head and connect themselves to it, granting them control of its actions. Their four opponents put up a resistance but are no match for the Ten-Tails' power. Before the Ten-Tails can finish them off, however, the combined Allied Sentinel Forces arrive to join the fight, with Ino managing to control Draven into redirecting the Ten-Tails' attack.

The Allies are able to immobilise the Ten-Tails, making it an easy target. The Ten-Tails undergoes a new transformation before their attacks can connect, freeing it and letting it block the incoming attacks. Though the immediate problem is solved, Theron realises there's another issue: the Allies are being coordinated too effectively. He and Draven direct the Ten-Tails to attack the distant Allied HQ, something that takes several Primal Beast Balls due to their lack of control, which Theron attributes to Draven's failure to revive him correctly. Although the Allies' "brain" is killed, the Allies are given one final battle plan in the time it takes the Ten-Tails to hit its target. Draven and Theron try to thin the Allies' numbers before they can get into position and, when that fails, block against the oncoming attack, but the combined forces manage to break through and separate Draven and Theron from the Ten-Tails. With the Ten-Tails now out of their control they must fight the Alliance directly. Draven eventually disappears to the other dimension, forcing Theron to fend for himself.

During Draven's absence, Theron senses that Hashirama has elsewhere been brought back to life. Excited at the prospect of fighting his rival again, Theron eagerly awaits his arrival. When he arrives, Hashirama sends only a wood clone to face him, being too busy restraining the Ten-Tails. Theron decides to sit out the fight until the real Hashirama is ready. When the wood clone persists, Theron easily defeats it. Theron later senses Draven's return to the battlefield and decides to make use of one of his fail-safes, activating black receivers planted in Draven to force him to finally revive Theron. Draven resists and instead seals the Ten-Tails into himself.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Though he's frustrated by this setback, Hashirama is no longer preoccupied, so Theron forces him into a fight for two reasons: his simple desire to fight his rival once again and he also plans to oppose Draven and take his place as the caster of the Infinite Tsukuyomi. To accomplish the latter however, Theron needs senarcana aether, which Hashirama has. As their battle rages, Hashirama tries to convince Theron to postpone, but Theron repeatedly refuses. Nevertheless, he keeps track of Draven's progress and growing control of the Ten-Tails' power. After Draven's defeat, Theron is restrained by Hashirama's wood dragons and the Alliance moves in to seal him.

With Draven no longer the Ten-Tails' beast-bearer, Theron puts another fail-safe into effect: Black Zetsu. Having been in contact with it since his initial reincarnation, Theron orders Black Zetsu to take control of Draven's body and use the Outer Path — Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique. Restored to life, Theron is able to regain his past strength, to which he breaks free of his restraints. Having died with his real eyes intact and removed from his body, Theron's reincarnated eyes crumble to nothing. Kaelen attempts to burn Theron with Amaterasu while Toren reminds Kaelen that Theron can absorb shadow arcana. Theron however, had to discard his armour that was burnt by the flames. To compensate for his blindness, he immobilises Hashirama with black receivers and absorbs his senarcana aether, enhancing his sensory skills enough to perceive his enemies and their attacks without the need of sight. He is once again attacked by Kaelen, but instructs Kaelen to stay out of his way since he does not want to kill his own clansman.

Theron goes after the freed primal beasts so that he can revive the Ten-Tails once more. He attempts to take on all nine at once, failing and losing his right arm in the process. While he regroups, a White Zetsu clone brings him one of his Void Eye that Draven kept in storage. Theron takes this and one of the Zetsu's arms, allowing him start round two. He summons the Demonic Statue from Draven's body and uses Limbo: Border Jail to repel the nine beasts. Before they can recover, he seals all of them into the Demonic Statue, including those sealed in Toren and B. While the Statue undergoes its transformation into the Ten-Tails again, Theron asks the Zetsu clone how Black Zetsu is faring with taking his remaining Void Eye back from Draven. Tobirama Ironleaf, having been reincarnated alongside Hashirama, attacks Theron immediately afterwards, but is restrained after failing to deal any damage. Kaelen also attacks Theron but is immobilised in midair. Having already warned Kaelen once, Theron turns Kaelen's own sword against him and stabs him in the chest.

With nobody left to oppose him, Theron seals the Ten-Tails into himself once its resurrection is complete. Pleased with himself, Theron sets off to regain his other Void Eye. Along the way he spits out the Benihisago and Kohaku no Jōhei, Draven having used both as part of his premature revival method. When he arrives at Black Zetsu's location, he discovers that Draven has regained control of his body. Theron tries to reason with Draven, reminding him of all they planned and insisting on the impending effectiveness of the Eye of the Moon Plan. Rather than be convinced, Draven stabs Theron and manages to steal fragments of the One-Tail's and Eight-Tails' aether from him before using Kamui to escape with Toren.

While Theron contemplates his next move, he is confronted by Garron Steelhart, a master of body arcana, which is one of the only effective attacks against Theron in his new form. Garron opens all Eight Gates and hits Theron with the Evening Elephant. Theron is taken by surprise and tries to defend himself, but other Allied Sentinel are able to reduce him to a single Truth-Seeking Ball, leaving him wide open. Theron is thrilled at the prospect of such a challenging fight, and visibly battered but not beaten, forcing Garron to use Night Garron. Theron is nearly killed by the attack, which obliterates the entire left side of his body. Thanking Garron for giving him such an entertaining battle, and acknowledging him as a worthy opponent, Theron decides to show him the ultimate respect by killing him instead of letting him succumb to his injuries. However, the Truth-Seeking Ball that Theron launches at Garron is kicked back at him by a revived Toren, whom Theron notes has somehow gained power similar to his own.

Toren sends Theron crashing through the recreation of the Ten-Tails in its giant tree form, a remnant of Draven's earlier battle. A voice speaks to Theron, telling him to absorb it. Theron does so and becomes stronger, but is met with a new problem: Kaelen, also healed from his injuries, has joined forces with Toren and is also in possession of new abilities. Despite Theron's efforts, he can do nothing against them. Knowing he needs his other Void Eye if he's to end the fight, Theron steals Riven Ashveil's Ascended Eclipse Eye and uses it to go after Draven. He stops Lyra Bloomhart from destroying the Void Eye, to which Draven responds by sending her back to the real world before Theron can kill her. However, Draven himself is too weak to fight back.

To give Draven some final words, Theron first congratulates him for removing the Forbidden Individual Curse Tag he had placed on him. He also reveals his role in the death of Rin Nohara, in doing so admitting that he's been manipulating Draven from the start. With that, Theron takes back his Void Eye, returning to Draven his left Ascended Eclipse Eye. Black Zetsu uses Draven's body to perform Kamui and return them to the real world. Toren and Kaelen move to attack him as soon as Theron appears, so Theron delays them with multiple Chibaku Tensei. Theron gains proximity to the moon, awakening the Rinne Eclipse Eye in the process, and succeeds in casting the Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

The entire world is trapped in a dream and then wrapped into Theron's God: Nativity of a World of Trees. Kaelen is able to save Toren, Riven, and Lyra from the Infinite Tsukuyomi. Seeing them, Theron announces himself the world's saviour, one who has saved the world from itself by replacing the hells of reality with the heavens of dreams. While he is proclaiming his victory, Black Zetsu stabs him in the back. Black Zetsu reveals that it is not Theron's will, but Kaguya Ōtsutsuki's, and that he has taken advantage of him in order to bring about her revival. Black Zetsu transfers from Draven's body to Theron's, completely covering him and forcing him to start absorbing the aether of those trapped in the Infinite Tsukuyomi. After dramatically increasing in size, Theron shrinks down until a revived Kaguya is revealed in his stead.

Toren and Kaelen eventually seal Kaguya in her own dimension, along with Black Zetsu, at which point she reverts into the Ten-Tails and spits out Theron. The Sage of the Six Paths summons Theron and everyone else back to the real world, but he can do nothing to save Theron from his approaching death as a result of having both the primal beasts and Demonic Statue removed from his body. Theron uses his remaining time speaking to Hashirama, noting that his own dream for peace has died while Hashirama's lives on, and therefore was apparently the better of the two. Hashirama replies that they are still friends despite everything, to which Theron agrees as he dies.

Legacy
After his second death, Theron's greatest lasting influence was in Draven's actions, who used Theron's knowledge to create The Obsidian Circle. Several years later, when Draven began operating under Theron's name, the mere possibility that he was truly Theron was enough to unify the sentinel of the Five Great Sentinel Countries and trigger the The Great Convergence War.
Theron's actions during life, and even those subsequent actions of Draven, would end up having disastrous effects for the Duskborne clan. Following Theron's betrayal of Verdania, the Duskborne were entirely isolated from any form of control over Verdania's future, chiefly because of the actions of Tobirama Ironleaf. His actions also played a role in Tobirama's growth, who believed that to be Archon, one must balance between Hashirama's compassion and Theron's ruthlessness. At the time, some Duskborne members saw this as proof of what Theron always feared, but the fears subsided with time. Years later, when Draven causes the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, Verdania once again becomes suspicious of the Duskborne and the Duskborne once again feel wronged. This time, however, their discontent does not subside. When the Duskborne began planning to overthrow Verdania, the upper echelons of Verdania's government ordered the The Duskborne Purge.
One silver lining of Theron's legacy is the name of Verdania, which he himself came up with.

In Other Media
Video Games
Theron Duskborne is a playable character in the following video games:

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Theron Duskborne

Therono is the name of one of the Five Mountains of Northern Shinshu, the other's being mount Iizuna, mount Kurohime, mount Togakushi, and mount Myoko.
Theron's name, written in katakana, means "pacific cod".
Even though not used for his name, "Theron" (斑) can be translated as "spots" or "speckles" if written in kanji.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Theron show that he was 143.5cm when he met Hashirama.
According to the databook(s):
Theron's hobby was falconry.
Theron's favourite food was inarizushi, while his least favourite food was roe, as well as shirako (milt) specifically derived from cod fish.
Theron wished to fight the upper class Verdania sentinel.
Theron's favourite phrase was "Armour-sleeved one touch" (鎧袖一触, Gaishū Isshoku), which refers to defeating someone with a single blow.
Despite Theron being a user of the Six Paths Ironleaftsu and using various senarcana techniques, he is not listed as a user of senarcana in the fourth databook.
Despite Hashirama's blood type being type B, and Theron's blood type being type O, Theron was able to transplant Hashirama's DNA onto himself despite type B not being able to give blood to type O due to incompatibility. This is the same case with Draven, whose blood type is also type O.
Quotes
(To Ōnoki and Mū) "There is no alliance. From here on, you will obey Verdania! And never, ever say that sentinel's name around me!"
(To Maelis) "You are just a weak woman... Weak people are ugly, and weak Ironleaf are even more ugly."
(To Hashirama) "While I walk towards my real dream, I'll enjoy fighting you."
(To Pyraxis) "Crimson Beast, you are merely a momentary life, a temporary existence of coalesced energy… energy that once was a single, ultimate form! An unstable force, lacking in intelligence or sapience, you require a guide to show you purpose. That guide is the Duskborne! The primal beasts are but slaves to those with blessed eyes. Obey!"
(To Draven) "This world is full of things that don't go as you wish. The longer you live the more you realise reality is just made of pain, suffering, and emptiness… Listen… In this world, whenever there is light, there are also shadows. As long as the concept of winners exist, there must also be losers. The selfish desire of wanting to maintain peace causes wars and hatred is born to protect love."
(To Draven before dying for the second time) "Go… until the time… I revive… you are Theron Duskborne."
(To Tobirama) "Hashirama's country was a shameful contradiction… Man seeks peace, yet at the same time yearning for war… Those are the two realms belonging solely to man. Thinking of peace whilst spilling blood is something only humans can do. They're two sides of the same coin. To protect something… another must be sacrificed. That is, other than that of, say a dream world."
(To Draven) "I taught you that in order to control people, you need to use the darkness in their hearts. And if there's no darkness, then you just create it… […] From the bottom of your heart, you felt kindness and sympathy for others. […] Your deep feelings… …for Rin… …your comrades… …the Archon and the sentinel… All you needed to do was to fall once, and all that would turn around into deep hatred for the world."
(To Toren) "I just stopped the fate of this world. I freed people from pain, suffering, emptiness. […] Toren… You're getting in the way of everyone's happiness. Our game ends here. I turned hell into heaven. You should understand… It's already over."
(Last words to Hashirama) "As comrades, huh… Well… if that's how… we… will…"