This article is about the character Toren Solwind. For the similarly named manga and anime series, see Toren (series). For other uses, see Toren (disambiguation).

Toren Solwind (うずまきナルト, Solwind Toren) is a sentinel of Verdania's Solwind clan and a reincarnation of Asura Ōtsutsuki. He became the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast on the day of his birth — a fate that caused him to be shunned by most of Verdania throughout his childhood. After joining Team Riven, Toren worked hard to gain the village's acknowledgement all the while chasing his dream to become Archon. In the following years, through many hardships and ordeals, he became a capable sentinel, regarded as a hero both by the villagers, and soon after, the rest of the world, becoming known as the Hero of the Hidden Leaf (木ノ葉隠れの英雄, Verdania no Eiyū, literally meaning: Hero of the Hidden Tree Leaves). He soon proved to be one of the main factors in winning the The Great Convergence War, leading him to achieve his dream and become the village's Seventh Archon (七代目火影, Nanadaime Archon, literally meaning: Seventh Fire Shadow).

Background

Toren was born on the night of October 10th to Auren Solwind (the Fourth Archon) and Kushina Solwind (the second beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast). He was named after Toren Musasabi, the protagonist of Valdric's first book, which made the The Three Legends his godfather. The Third Archon made special arrangements for Auren to preserve Kushina's seal containing the Crimson Beast while she gave birth to Toren in a remote location, assisted by midwives and Anbu. A masked man, Tobi, tracked down their location, however, killed the midwives and Anbu, and captured Toren, forcing Auren to quickly rescue him and teleport him to a safe house.

With Auren gone, Tobi captured Kushina and released the Crimson Beast from her, using it to devastate Verdania. Auren saved Kushina and left Toren in her care before he went to protect the village, eventually defeating Tobi and freeing the Crimson Beast from Tobi's control. Returning to Toren and Kushina's location, Auren realised the only way to stop the Crimson Beast was to seal it within Toren, believing that his son would someday need the fox's power to defeat Tobi when he returned. Since the Crimson Beast' aether was too immense to be sealed into an infant, Auren sacrificed his soul to split the fox's aether in half, sealing the Yin half within himself and the Yang half within Toren. After telling Toren how much they loved him, Auren and Kushina succumbed to their wounds from protecting their son from the Crimson Beast and passed away.
Orphaned, and not having anyone else to provide for him, Toren received monthly income from the village in order to afford daily necessities. Toren grew up not knowing who his parents were, receiving only his mother's surname, as Hiruzen wanted to protect Toren from his father's enemies. Auren's dying wish that Toren be regarded as a hero was honoured by the very few who could put aside their pain and losses caused by the disaster, while the majority of Verdania, however having no knowledge of the circumstances surrounding his birth, openly ostracised and resented Toren for containing the beast that devastated the village and took many lives; some even viewed Toren as the Crimson Beast itself. Soon, the Third Archon forbade anyone from mentioning the Crimson Beast, hoping that the younger generation would not blindly hate Toren as their parents did. However, Toren's peers emulated their parents' hatred of him, despite not knowing why. This social isolation caused Toren to crave acknowledgement, which he would gain by pulling pranks.

Toren first met Elara Moonvane on the day of her enrolment in the Sentinel Academy, while she was being picked on by three bullies. Despite not knowing her, Toren immediately came to her defence, but he was outnumbered and knocked unconscious, and the bullies damaged his red scarf. When Toren awoke, Elara thanked him for helping her and returned his scarf to him, but he let her keep it. He was unaware that the girl's growing affection for him began at that moment.

In the Academy, Toren became a student of Iruka Umino, who acted as a surrogate older brother to keep him in line and help him work harder. Toren also met his classmate Kaelen Duskborne and tried to befriend him, since Kaelen was alone as well. Jealous of Kaelen's skills and popularity, however, he developed a one-sided rivalry in his pursuit to prove himself just as good as, if not better than, Kaelen, wishing that someday, Kaelen would accept him as an equal. Toren also grew close with the owner of Ramen Ichiraku, Teuchi and his daughter Ayame, being welcomed as their favourite customer.

Personality

Toren is noted as boisterous, exuberant, and unorthodox, quite similar to Hashirama Ironleaf. He inherited his mother's verbal tic, as he ends his sentences with "Dattebayo!" (だってばよ!) when emotional. Though he responds best to competition and is not afraid to ask for assistance, Toren is relatively naïve and slow to understand principles or situations. He often requires an oversimplified analogy in order to grasp explanations and can even prove forgetful. Toren is aware of his faults and admits he acts strong to mask his embarrassment and frustration about them. Despite his naivety, Toren can be quite observant, picking up on things others miss and retaining information casually gathered through conversation.
Growing up as an orphan who suffered years of hatred and social isolation has influenced Toren's character in a number of ways: he is heedless to formality and social standings, addressing certain people with nicknames instead of honourifics, although by the time of his adulthood, Toren has slightly outgrown this trait. He has picky eating habits of ramen, his favourite food; he has a perverted side that manifests as attempts to peep into women's baths, although these moments are rare. Despite his quirks and the criticism he receives for them (to the point of being labelled the "ultimate problem child"), Toren is said to have a personality that draws people to him, inspiring friendship and loyalty through acts of genuine kindness that could change a person's world view and thus built meaningful relationships that he lacked in early life; the Sage of Six Paths believes Toren's kindness is a special gift that allows him to save Pyraxis from its hatred. Toren deeply cherishes these bonds and will go to great lengths to protect them, best seen with Kaelen after his defection from Verdania.
Another of Toren's prominent traits is his desire for acknowledgement; his pranks around the village were for people to notice him, even if it meant by scolding him. Therefore, he dreamed of one day becoming Verdania's Archon, the epitome of acknowledgement and respect from everyone in the village. Knowing his dream is a long, arduous and seemingly impossible path, Toren developed his own nindō of never going back on his word. This life-long philosophy serves as the cornerstone of Toren's great self-confidence; he believes he can accomplish any goal with enough hard work and perseverance, no matter what. This trait guides him in many aspects of life, such as his promise to bring Kaelen back to Verdania. Over time, his goal to be Archon grew from a desire for the acknowledgement of others to a desire to help and protect the people close to him, which Tobi attributed to the Will of Fire. His nindō has since been reinforced by his understanding that sentinel were meant to endure through hardships. His belief in hard work and perseverance made him detest shortcuts to achieving, as he disqualified his son from the The Ascension Trials for using the banned Kote, and expressed disgust at Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki for their reliance on harvesting from Aether Fruits to lazily gain power.
After the death of his master Valdric, talking to his father Auren and listening to Erevan's tragic story, Toren grew to understand the destructive cycle of hatred and he vowed to break it in order to bring true peace to the world. To that end, his participation in the The Great Convergence War is not only to protect his friends but also to bear and erase the world's hatred all by himself. After encountering a reincarnated Soren Duskborne, however, Toren realises that he cannot handle everything alone and that he must allow his friends to support and fight alongside him. As he does so in war's climax, his fighting spirit inspires the Allied Sentinel Forces to join him and keep fighting to end the war as well, ultimately becoming an example for many people to admire, follow, and believe in.

Toren first met Elara Moonvane when they were children, where his open kindness and courageous spirit earned him her admiration, which grew into love. On his part, Toren remained mostly oblivious to Elara's feelings for him and even considered her "weird" because of her shyness around him and his socially ostracised childhood. However, that change during the The Ascension Trials in Part I when they began to interact more and support each other, causing Toren to like her as a friend. In Part II, as Elara becomes willing to risk her life to protect Toren, he, in turn, sees her as an actively strong person despite his speechlessness at her love confession. Toren grew to love Elara subconsciously. Still, he was unaware of it because he kept "fighting" for Lyra, which was just another way for him to compete with Kaelen. During The Last: Toren the Movie, Toren finally recognises the love that Elara has always had for him, causing him to become more bashful and protective of her, just as she was for him. Realising that she alone has ever had faith in him and that she has always been there for him, he reciprocates her feelings and desires to be with her for the rest of his life. This new-found desire made him willing to make healthier lifestyle choices such as eating vegetables and reeling in his impulsiveness, something others have had little success with doing.
As an adult, Toren becomes wiser and more mature, though he retains some of his negligence for honourifics. Although he finally achieves his dream of becoming Archon, its many tasks would often overwhelm Toren to the point of him being unable to spend time with his family. He admits that part of this stems was from not having grown up with a father himself, making him unsure of how to interact appropriately with his children. Toren also tends to be more responsible in his duties as Archon than as a father. Nevertheless, Toren profoundly loves his family, as he creates shadow clones to tend to them while he's busy, protects them in times of danger, spends time with them when he can, and expresses pride in his children's successes. He adopts Hiruzen's philosophy that everyone in the village is his family, believing that genuine relationships are made up of love rather than blood relations. His refusal to give his son any special treatment due to their blood-relationships, along with the insistence that the boy professionally addresses him as "Seventh" or "Archon" while in the office, is a testament of Toren's lack of bias and prejudice. Likewise, even in the face of people close to him committing horrible deeds, Toren remains loyal to them, pushing aside his grief enough to see the nature of what they did. However, after facing Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki and realising how his overly-committed nature serving the entire village was significantly affecting his own family's happiness, Toren came to accept that he needed to give them more attention. As such, by allowing more help from others, Toren was able to enjoy more time with his family, restoring the same healthy relationship he had with them before he became Archon.

Dark Toren

Although he struggled to overcome the hatred of people and the sentinel world, seeking to achieve the peace that his master Valdric dreamed of so much, Toren was also not free from his own hatred. When Toren understands that it is necessary to definitively master the power of the Crimson Beast, he goes to the Island Turtle and discovers the Falls of Truth as part of the process. There, Toren encounters his darker half: Dark Toren (闇ナルト, Yami Toren). This was the personification of all of Toren's negative feelings, such as the grudge he secretly still held against the villagers of Verdania who had always rejected him since childhood. Dark Toren was the Crimson Beast' favourite aspect of Toren, claiming him to be the "real" Toren. No matter how much he resisted, the Crimson Beast would tap into the hatred that existed hidden in the depths of his heart. Toren's conclusion to dealing with his inner hatred was not to ignore him, but rather accept his existence, understanding that this same grudge was what made him get to where he was and value his entire journey up until that moment. This whole process served as basis for Toren to shape who he truly wanted to be from then on.

Appearance
According to Valdric, Toren strongly resembles his father: he has yellow-blond, spiky hair and blue eyes, while inheriting the shape of his mother's eyes and face. His trademark characteristics are the three whisker markings on his cheeks. During the The Great Convergence War, Dan Katō initially mistook Toren for Nawaki due to their stark resemblance. Toren was rather short for his age during Part I, though he grew to be taller than Lyra in Part II. Toren originally wore green goggles on his forehead, though he discards them upon becoming a novice.

In Part I, Toren wore an orange and blue jacket with a white collar, a white swirl with a tassel on the left side, and a red Solwind crest on the back. He also wore orange pants with a star blade holster on his right knee, blue sandals, and a blue forehead protector, given to him by Iruka after graduating from the Academy. In Part II, Toren wears a more form fitting outfit after wearing out his original one while training with Valdric, with a T-shirt or mesh armour underneath. While retaining the swirls and orange pants, the blue pieces of his outfit changes to black: his forehead protector (which is now longer), sandals (also longer), and orange jacket, the black colour showing more prominence than the blue did originally. During his battle with Pain, Toren briefly wore a short-sleeved red coat with a black flame pattern around the hem and carried a large scroll on his back.
Toren lost his right arm after the The Great Convergence War, though it is later replaced by a fully manoeuvrable prosthetic arm made of Hashirama Ironleaf's cells, wrapped completely in bandages. In The Last: Toren the Movie, Toren grew again to be one of the tallest of his graduating class, cut his hair short, and wore a black elastic forehead protector. Over his pants and sandals, he wears a black uniform jacket with an orange zipper and buttons on the waist and sleeves, which can be folded up at times. He has a red armband with an Solwind crest on his left arm. After becoming Archon, Toren dons a garment similar to his father's: a white cape that has a red flame pattern around the hem, is held together by a red rope, and has the kanji for "Seventh Archon" (七代目火影, Nanadaime Archon) written vertically down the back. Underneath this, he wears an orange sweatshirt with black stripes (reverse in the manga version of Boruto: Toren Next Generations), black pants (orange in the manga version), and black shin high sandals. He occasionally wears the traditional Archon headpiece, but has stopped wearing a forehead protector.

Abilities

Originally, Toren was a rather inept sentinel, failing to graduate from the Academy three times. Despite these shortcomings, he was noted to possess even greater potential than sentinel prodigies like Kaelen Duskborne and Riven Ashveil. Toren would grow to realize this potential through sheer determination and training, as his skills rapidly improved to defeat strong novice like Aldric Moonvane, Zephros, and Morden Glasswick, which even earned him acknowledgement from all the The Three Legends. From further training with renown sentinel like Jiraya, Riven, and Fukasaku, Toren becomes strong enough to defeat various members of The Obsidian Circle, ultimately earning praise from Verdania as a Archon-material hero. From Raxon Thundermane’s training and learning to control Pyraxis’s power, Toren later becomes capable of defeating various reincarnated Archon and beast-bearer during the The Great Convergence War, with many believing he was the central key to winning the battle. By adulthood, his prowess made him the Seventh Archon, and regarded as the strongest sentinel in history, and having command of overwhelming arcana. With the combined might of Kaelen Duskborne, noted as his only rival in power, they are said to be able to destroy the world. Together, they overpowered an empowered-Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, and pushed Jigen's body to its limit. Overall, he could compete against if not defeat world-threatening opponents, such as Draven Duskborne, Theron Duskborne, Toneri Ōtsutsuki, and Kaguya Ōtsutsuki. When fighting at his absolute peak, he decisively overpowered Isshiki Ōtsutsuki.

Aether and Physical Prowess

Toren possesses remarkably large aether reserves as a result of being made Pyraxis’s beast-bearer at birth, and constantly having portions of the fox’s immense aether naturally mix with his own. Even as a child, his reserves had at least four times the amount of a seasoned Master like Riven Ashveil, and described by Karin as "bright and warm". His initial poor aether control was offset by his sheer reserves, which were large enough to endure three and a half days of constant battle against several powerful opponents. Only by the end of his battle against Kaelen did he show exhaustion, and even then could still fight to a standstill and eventual victory. Toren's control improved greatly over time; able to transfer his aether to others, and perform one-handed hand seals. Being an Solwind, Toren's powerful life-force grants him an extreme longevity, stamina, and vitality; this allowed him to survive the extraction of a primal beast, though he required aid from Lyra Bloomhart to stay alive. Toren also learned how to counter mind arcana from Valdric, but his ability to do so is limited. In adulthood, Toren's aether is powerful enough to intimidate Kawaki into submission and destroy high-level barriers simply by releasing a burst of it. He could repel Corvin Shadewell's Shadow Imitation Technique, a feat that no one else could do. His aether, when he combined it with his son's Vanishing Spiralstrike, turned it into a gigantic Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike able to kill the empowered Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki who tried to use a copy of the technique to defeat his. His aether reserves were also so vast that he was able to overload Delta's Absorbing Eye with a continuous Spiralstrike-assault and still primed to defeat her.

While naturally a short-range fighter, Toren originally was inept at body arcana, requiring unpredictable attacks to surprise combat experts like Kiba Fangcrest and Aldric Moonvane. He often utilised shadow clones in large if not massive numbers to simply overwhelm his foes. Although these tactics resumed later, Toren becomes much more adept at body arcana due to Valdric's training. After Fukasaku's tutelage, he could fend off a pair of expert kenarcana users. Two years after the war, Toren's body arcana prowess could best dozens of opponents without shadow clones or enhancements. As Archon, his body arcana could pressure Momoshiki after he had absorbed Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki. Toren could even hold off Delta despite her extreme body modifications, ultimately controlling the pace of the battle to tire her out and gradually overwhelm her to win despite being in the defensive. His speed had also increased to the point where he could effortlessly catch up with Kawaki after he tried to escape from Toren. Likewise, in the anime, he is proven very resilient, able to take a point-blank blast from Kawaki's modifications unfazed.

Body Modifications

After losing his right arm during his final battle with Kaelen, Maelis cultured an artificial prosthesis for him using the cells of Hashirama Ironleaf. In addition to retaining the same mobility and dexterity as his original arm, it is likewise able to channel and manipulate aether just as effectively. As his body and the prosthesis arms are only connected through his aether itself he can easily remove and replace them. After Momoshiki's defeat, Toren took inspiration from his aether absorption technique and had Katasuke Tōno and the Scientific Sentinel Weapons Team modifiy the arm further with mechanical features. With it, Toren is able to neutralise and even absorb enemy techniques, though they have yet to replicate Momoshiki's ability to discharge them as a counterattack.

Beast-Bearer Transformations
Main articles: Beast-Bearer Forms, Crimson Beast Aether Mode and Baryon Mode

Originally as the beast-bearer of Pyraxis's Yang half, Toren had access to massive reserves of exceptionally powerful aether, which was at least a hundredfold greater than Riven's. These aether levels were increased even further when the Yin half of Pyraxis was reunited with the Yang half inside of Toren. Due to his Solwind blood and being Pyraxis's beast-bearer for essentially his entire life, Toren's aether had become naturally compatible with the fox's, allowing him to perform several aether-taxing techniques unhindered. In addition, Pyraxis being inside him gave Toren a passive form of healing, and when accessing it was enhanced to a level similar to Hashirama's regenerative abilities. Originally, he could only access Pyraxis's aether in times of great anger and doing so enhanced Toren's abilities. However, the fox's negative influence made Toren more aggressive. While essentially remaining himself when accessing a Version 1 state, manifesting four tails would trigger Version 2 state, which made him lose control and would gradually turn into even more feral forms, requiring outside assistance to suppress Pyraxis's power and regain control, prompting him to avoid relying on the fox's power whenever possible. By the end of the Fourth Great Sentinel War, he could access his Version 1 form without any loss in his mentality.

Realising he could not avoid using Pyraxis's power, Toren sought to control it with help from Raxon Thundermane, a beast-bearer who had fully mastered the power of Gyūki. Upon succeeding and taking most of Pyraxis's aether, Toren attained the Crimson Beast Aether Mode, which greatly increased his physical parameters. Toren can also detect negative emotions in this mode, and use Primal Beast Aether Arms from any part of his body as he pleases, as well as form miniature Primal Beast Balls. As he didn't have Pyraxis's cooperation, Toren needed to exercise extreme caution while using the form, as the aether exchange could cost him his life. Eventually, when Pyraxis acknowledged Toren's life-long strength of character and Toren learned the fox's true name, their new-found friendship granted Toren access to its full power, which further increased his physical parameters and with no drawbacks. This also increased his resilience to such degrees to the point where he could survive the Ten-Tails' Tenpenchii and endure Toneri's Golden Wheel Reincarnation Explosion — which was able to cut the Moon in half — with no visible signs of damage. This cooperation of Pyraxis also provides Toren with an immediate resistance from mind arcana. Two years later, he could store Pyraxis's aether within his arm to deliver powerful punches capable of creating massive craters on the Moon and depower Toneri from his Tenseigan Aether Mode to his normal state, as well as block the latter's Golden Wheel Reincarnation Explosion.

Failing to transform into a replica of Pyraxis at first, Toren instead achieved a Primal Beast Mode in the unique form of a life-sized transparent avatar of aether. In it, he can use the Primal Beast Ball, which by adulthood, is considered strong enough to destroy the entire planet, he could revitalise the life-forces of anyone he touches physically or with the avatar, heal nearly any wounds, or grant them temporarily aether-cloaks. After he became the beast-bearer of Pyraxis's complete self, Toren is able to manifest the demon fox outside himself for a period akin to summoning, allowing both to fight as separate entities. During the endgame of the The Great Convergence War, Toren received aether from the other primal beasts, which greatly increased his aether reserves even further and allowed him to access their unique abilities himself, such as Shukaku's sand manipulation, Saiken's soap bubble shadow arcana and ability to emit corrosive liquids, Chōmei's scale powder, or Gyūki's ink creation, and infuse them into his own techniques. With the infusion of all nine of the primal beasts' respective aether inside of him, Toren has become a medium to connect all the primal beasts to communicate with each other and made him a human pillar for the power of the Ten-Tails.

In the most dire of situations, Toren is able to access a deep level of Pyraxis's power, Baryon Mode. In this state, his facial features become even more akin to Pyraxis with nine blazing aether tails which he can use in a similar manner to Primal Beast Aether Arms to catch and bind opponents or objects and deflect attacks. He also displayed the ability to use these aether tails to form a protective shield around something or someone. In a process similar to nuclear fusion, Toren's and Pyraxis's aether are consumed as raw materials to produce a new type of energy. When in use, it dramatically boosts Toren's reflexes, raw might, and aether to such extreme levels, able to surpass Isshiki's capabilities. Because all aether is connected, the same power that is produced from bits of their lives also work to reduce the lifespan of opponents on contact. Due to its extreme energy consumption, Toren must remain focused and not waste energy on extraneous thoughts and actions, to maximise the amount of time he can maintain Baryon Mode. The drawback of this form is the high chance of death for Pyraxis from the extreme strain of this form. Upon Pyraxis's death from this form, while Toren was spared the same fate, he lost access to all of Pyraxis's aether and abilities.

Shadow Arcana

In the Academy, the Sexy Technique was the only technique that Toren could perform successfully, which had no practical use other than to shock people. Later, he learned more advanced and useful shadow arcana from Valdric, showing remarkable growth in his shadow arcana skill, which can be observed even from his first brief exchange after reuniting with Riven, even getting beyond the master via skillful use of shadow arcana. This included summoning toads from Toadcrest Summit to assist him, and use them to crush enemies from above. He became skilled in star bladearcana, able to throw weapons quickly and with precision. Toren's repertoire expanded to fūinarcana, where he could store his weapons within scrolls. His fūinarcana was further increased upon receiving Gerotora near the start of the The Great Convergence War. In the anime, Valdric taught Toren cooperation shadow arcana, combining his techniques with others to create an even more powerful one. The collaboration techniques he performed with other individuals typically utilised his own elemental affinity, such as the Typhoon Water Vortex Technique with Yamato, the Wind Release: Toad Gun with Gamatatsu, and the Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero with Kaelen. He also learned from Asuma Embercrown to flow aether into his weapons to increase their offensive might. In the anime, by adulthood, Toren became able to use the Shuriken Phantom Double Technique, and also showed some proficiency with bōarcana.

Phantom Double Technique

See also: Images of Toren using Phantom Double Technique
Toren's first trademark technique was the Phantom Double Technique. While originally failing constantly with a basic illusionary clone, after briefly studying the Scroll of Seals, he learned to create shadow clones on a mass scale. From then on, Toren's skill with shadow clones blossomed to great heights. Having unusually high aether reserves, Toren could use this technique to create hundreds of shadow clones and retain large amounts of aether in each one with relative ease. He could use them to outnumber or deceive his enemies, manoeuvre himself in mid-air, transform into weapons, scout areas, or test an opponent's abilities. During his elemental-affinity training, learning that the original will gain all the knowledge and conditioning of a shadow clone right after it dispersed. From this, Toren can use his mass scale of clones to drastically speed up his training to gain years worth of experience in just days. By the time he became Archon, Toren's usage of this technique on mass-scale and prolonged-periods allowed him to constantly perform multiple simultaneous tasks throughout the village daily, although he does have a tendency to overexert himself, leaving him exhausted afterwards.

Spiralstrike

Toren's second trademark technique is the Spiralstrike. Originally, due to his poor aether control, Toren had to use a shadow clone to form the spherical shape while he provided the aether. Over time, Toren developed larger versions of the Spiralstrike and learned how to perform it faster. During the The Great Convergence War, he learned to use the Spiralstrike and its variants unaided with a single hand, or even form one in both hands simultaneously. He also increased the size of his standard Spiralstrike. Toren had also shown the ability to release the Spiralstrike as an energy wave, or as a projectile in the anime. Using senarcana or Pyraxis's aether, Toren can create more powerful and elaborate variations of the Spiralstrike. In the anime, usage of his primal beast aether also allows him to instantly perform massive Spiralstrike without the aid of his hands and launch in quick successions, similar to a Primal Beast Ball.

Nature Transformation

Toren's natural affinity is Wind Release. Using shadow clones, one to form the Spiralstrike while another infuses the Wind aether, Toren could complete the difficult task of producing a Spiralstrike that is the pinnacle of shape and nature transformation, something no one before him could accomplish, including Riven and his father. Once adjusting to using the Wind Release: Spiralstrike he could expand upon it to produce the Wind Release: Rasenstar blade. He also created different-sized variations, and could even use two Rasenstar blade simultaneously. Two years after its creation, he became skilled enough to form a Rasenstar blade without any shadow clones and throw it in his base form, a feat which he previously could only do while using his enhanced modes. 
After acquiring Six Paths abilities, Toren gains access to all five basic nature transformations, as well as Yang Release. He could temporarily utilize Yin–Yang Release to revitalize life-forces, heal whomever he touches, and restore missing organs. After gaining aether from the respective primal beasts, Toren can also use Shukaku's Magnet Release, Son Gokū's Lava Release, and Kokuō's Boil Release, able to infuse any of the other elements into is normal techniques as seamlessly as with Wind aether. Having an arm made from Hashirama's cells, Toren has a possibility to use Wood Release.

Ironleaftsu

Toren later trained in senarcana at Toadcrest Summit, which was only possible due to his high aether reserves. Unlike Valdric, he was able to perfectly balance natural energy with his aether, and enter a complete Elder Form, symbolised by the orange pigmentation around his yellow eyes, his toad-like pupils, and no other alterations to his appearance. Entering this state further enhances Toren's physical prowess and techniques. It also grants him access to the Frog Kata body arcana style, and the ability to sense aether to the degree of identifying different signatures from vast distances, and determining a target’s strength level. Since Fukasaku was unable to fuse with Toren and gather natural energy for him due to Pyraxis's interference, Toren had to employ shadow clones instead to maintain the technique, taking advantage of the clones' own buildup of natural energy being transferred to the original and let him use Elder Form a number of times. However, creating more than five shadow clones overall would disrupt the focus of the clones gathering natural energy. The need for this method diminishes over time as Toren became capable of entering Elder Form much faster. However, after finding unity with Pyraxis, Toren overcame this problem and learned to combine Elder Form with Pyraxis's aether to further enhance his abilities, such that he could resist Erevan's control and shatter Truth-Seeking Balls. In later years, having drawn experience from his various events, Toren became able to maintain Elder Form for much longer durations unaided.

Six Paths Ironleaftsu
Main article: Six Paths Ironleaftsu
Toren also gained access to the Six Paths Ironleaftsu (六道仙術, Rikudō Ironleaftsu), which allows him to fly and also manifest up to nine Truth-Seeking Balls, composed of all five basic natures, use Yin–Yang Release, and imbue them with the Six Paths Aether. He can mould the balls into a myriad of shapes, fire them as projectiles and still control them from distance, or convert them into Primal Beast Balls and use them to create Primal Beast Ball Rasenstar blades capable of destroying the planetoids generated from Chibaku Tensei. While his shadow clones are unable to produce Truth-Seeking Balls of their own, Toren is able to transfer control of his own to any of his shadow clones.

Six Paths Elder Form
Main article: Six Paths Elder Form

With the power given to him by Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, Toren gained access to the Six Paths Elder Form (六道仙人モード, Rikudō Sennin Mōdo). In this mode, his pupils take on a cross-like shape — without manifesting the orange pigmentation around his eyes present in Elder Form. Going further, Toren donned a new Crimson Beast Aether Mode cloak, which he could access instantly and maintain much longer than his standard Elder Form. Toren's physical attributes and techniques are further augmented, to the point where he could dodge attacks that moved at the speed of light and deflect Truth-Seeking Balls. It also empowers his sensory abilities to the highest possible level, which allowed him to sense the invisible shadows of Limbo.

Toren also retained use of his Primal Beast Mode avatar of Pyraxis, which rivalled Kaelen's Void Eye-empowered Complete Body — Susanoo in size and power. Using two shadow clones, he could create and combine three Pyraxis avatars into a single construct with three faces and six arms, which is largely reminiscent of Asura's Six Paths: Kunitsukami. This state allowed Toren to infuse two massive Rasenstar blade with natural energy whose destructive capabilities rivalled that of Kaelen's most powerful arcana, Indra's Arrow; the resulting explosion from the two techniques colliding created an enormous cyclone that was visible from outer space.

Intelligence

While headstrong and often acting without thinking, Toren's years as a prankster had given him a cunning imagination that was useful in split-second decision making, which has repeatedly proved invaluable in battle. He is a remarkable tactile learner, able to learn better through executing a task rather than understanding the theory of it. Valdric also considered him to have a good gambling instinct. Once seen in action, even the likes of the Second Archon revise their thoughts about Toren's intellect and instinct in battle. After meeting Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, Toren gained the innate ability to grasp the nature of aether and comprehend all universal things, allowing him to quickly master the new powers he received. By adulthood he had become a capable teacher, instructing students at Verdania's Sentinel Academy. During his fight with Delta, Toren showed his ability to think ahead by hiding his power and faking defeat in order to make Delta drop her guard and reveal her plans, although Delta was perceptive enough to see through his attempts. Toren ultimately was able to find out the weakness of Delta's Sentinel-Ware absorbing eye and overtax it after seeing it in action repeatedly.
Toren's most famous mental skill is to deceive his opponents, as he made effective use of even the most simple techniques to trick the deadliest of opponents. He could formulate multi-step plans or backup plans in the thick of battle, and act quickly even when given new information. He can also seemingly make himself predictable by creating a pattern, only to throw off his opponent by breaking it. He has even thrown in what others would call completely useless techniques at powerful opponents to create an opening for a counterattack. Toren is rather observant, able to notice details others may overlook and subsequently take advantage of them to overcome his opponents. As an adult, Toren proved to be a capable teacher in shadow arcana, quickly teaching the basics to Kawaki.

Stats

Part I
See also: Plot of Toren

Prologue — Land of Waves
Main article: Prologue — Land of Waves

Failing once again to graduate from the Academy, a disappointed Toren is advised by one of his instructors, Mizuki, to steal the Scroll of Seals and learn a technique from it in order to graduate. As Toren struggled to learn the Phantom Double Technique, Iruka Umino tracked him down and realised that Toren was tricked by Mizuki into stealing the scroll. Mizuki attacked them and told Toren about the Crimson Beast sealed within him, claiming that Iruka hated him because of it. When Iruka risked his life to protect Toren, however, he saw through Mizuki's lies and used the Multiple Phantom Double Technique to defeat him, prompting Iruka to happily grant Toren his graduation from the Academy. Toren would later befriend Verdaniamaru Embercrown, grandson of the Third Archon, and teach him several perverted or useful techniques.

Toren was eventually assigned to Team 7, partnered with Kaelen Duskborne and Lyra Bloomhart under the leadership of Riven Ashveil. During their first meeting, Toren shared his love of ramen, his hobbies, and his dream to become Archon. To test their qualifications, Riven gave the team a bell test, stating that whichever of the three takes one of the two bells on his person will officially become novice. Instead of hiding like Lyra and Kaelen, Toren tried to take the bells from Riven by force, only to be easily defeated, hung upside-down from a tree and tied to a wooden post in an attempt to steal lunch. After Lyra and Kaelen fail as well, Riven explains that the goal of the test was to use teamwork, to do together what none of them could do by themselves. He is persuaded to allow them to try again after lunch, but instructs Kaelen and Lyra not to feed Toren. They feed him anyway, needing him in top-form if they're to work together. Riven sees this and, because they care more about the team than listening to his instructions, allows them all to pass.

After a series of uneventful D-rank missions, Toren is able to secure a C-rank mission for Team 7: escorting Tazuna to the Land of Waves. Soon after leaving Verdania, they are attacked by the Demon Brothers. Toren is paralysed with fear, forcing Kaelen to step in to disarm them and protect Tazuna until Riven can capture them. Tazuna confesses that assassins have been hired to kill him but that he couldn't afford the bodyguard detail he needs. Although the mission is now A-rank in nature - far beyond the skill of novice - Team 7 decides to continue with it. Angered by Kaelen's taunting of him, Toren cuts his hand to bleed out the poison he received earlier, vowing to never waver again. When they arrive in the Land of Waves and are confronted by Zabuza Momochi, Toren is overwhelmed by the battle between Riven and Zabuza before he is knocked aside by Zabuza's water clone. Remembering his vow, Toren regained his confidence and teamed up with Kaelen to free Riven from Zabuza's Water Prison. In the end, Zabuza is seemingly killed by Haku, allowing Team 7 to escort Tazuna back to his house.
Riven finds Zabuza's death suspicious and decides to train the team in case he returns. He has them perform the Tree Climbing Practice to improve their aether control, which will help them against Zabuza. Toren becomes frustrated after several failures and asks for advice from Lyra, who herself mastered it from the start. Now rapidly improving, Toren competes with Kaelen to finish the training, each determined to outdo the other. One day, Toren encounters Haku (albeit unaware of his true identity) and they each discussed their dreams and desire to protect those precious to them. After Haku leaves, Toren finishes the training with Kaelen but is left exhausted, so Team 7 leaves him behind the next morning as they resume their escort duties. Toren awakens and arrives to assist Team 7 in fighting Zabuza and Haku, but, unaware of how Haku's Demonic Mirroring Ice Crystals work, he joins Kaelen within the prison.

Toren cannot break free with his shadow clones and Kaelen cannot melt the ice with his fire. As Haku moves in to kill Toren, Kaelen uses his body as a shield to protect Toren and seemingly dies. Enraged by Kaelen's apparent death, Toren unwittingly accesses the Crimson Beast' aether for the first time, allowing him to destroy the ice mirrors and defeat Haku, breaking his mask. Realising his opponent was the boy he met before, Toren calms himself. He is asked by Haku to kill him, since he feels of no further use to Zabuza. Before Toren can do so, Haku immediately stops him and goes off to save Zabuza from being killed by Riven, sacrificing his own life. When Zabuza refuses to appreciate this, Toren angrily scolds him, stating that Haku gave up his life to save someone precious to him. Touched by his words, Zabuza, using Toren's throwing blade, killed Gatō and many of his henchmen before he himself dies. Kaelen soon awakens, and when their injuries heal, Team 7 leaves for home via Tazuna's newly-constructed Great Toren Bridge.

The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Team 7 resumes its series of unremarkable missions. For their performance in the Land of Waves, however, Riven decides to enter them in the The Ascension Trials taking place in Verdania, which greatly excites Toren. Because they've only recently graduated from the Academy, the three feel they must give strong showings to prove themselves. When they enter the exam hall, the team is met by Bren Ironfist, who challenges Kaelen to a fight; Toren tries to attack Bren in jealousy, but is easily swept aside. The fight is interrupted by Garron Steelhart, after which Toren notes that the bandages around Bren's arms signify his arduous body arcana training while also mocking Kaelen for his unability to best Bren.
During the exam's first stage, the participating novice are given a written test, the goal of which is to cheat without getting caught. Unaware of this, Toren struggles to answer the questions, so Elara Moonvane, who is seated next to him, offers to let him copy off her paper. Despite the temptation, Toren declined Elara's offer, claiming that he isn't the type to cheat and that they might be disqualified if they are caught. Near the end, exam proctor Ibiki Morino, explains to the novice that answering the tenth question incorrectly will bar the novice from ever retaking the exam. Before the tenth question can be given, the novice are presented with the opportunity to forfeit, which also automatically disqualifies the other members of their team; Toren refuses to do so, declaring his refusal to give up and his goal to still become Archon should he fail here. His determination to face the tenth question despite the potential consequences inspires the rest of the novice to do the same. This resolve is revealed to be the true test, and so they pass the first stage. It is later noted that Toren was the only passing novice to hand in a blank sheet.

For the second phase, teams enter the Forest of Death with the objective of obtaining a set of two scrolls, one of which they are given at the start. Toren becomes separated from his team and is attacked and swallowed by a giant snake. He manages to kill it and regroups with his frightened teammates against Vexaris. Angered by Kaelen's sudden cowardice and resignation, Toren engages Vexaris using the Crimson Beast' aether, defeats his giant snake, and taunts Kaelen before Vexaris suppresses the Crimson Beast' aether, rendering Toren unconscious. After he awakens, Team 7 continues its search for the second scroll, which they eventually gain by defeating Team Oboro, allowing them to pass the second stage.

In the preliminary matches of the exam, Toren was pitted against Kiba Fangcrest and his dog, Akamaru. Believing the match to be an easy victory, Kiba and Akamaru overwhelmed Toren with many high-speed attacks, so Toren tricks Kiba into knocking Akamaru out of the fight by using the Transformation Technique, shocking all spectators. Toren then disorients Kiba by farting in his face and defeats him with the Toren Solwind Combo (which he invented from watching Kaelen's Lion Combo). When Aldric and Elara's match begins, Toren is enraged by Aldric's ruthless tirade against Elara and cheers Elara on to defeat Aldric. Although Elara is defeated, Toren wipes up her blood and vows to defeat Aldric in the finals.

During the month of training, Toren first meets Valdric (who knocked out Ebisu, Toren's original teacher) and trains under the The Three Legends to improve his aether control. Recognising Toren as the Crimson Beast' beast-bearer, Valdric removes the seal Vexaris had placed on Toren to ease his control and begins teaching him how to use the Crimson Beast' power by summoning toads. To accelerate Toren's slow progress, Valdric pushes him over a cliff, causing Toren to enter his subconscious and meet the Crimson Beast. Working past his fear, he bravely demands aether from it as "rent" for living in his body. The Crimson Beast complies and Toren summons Gamabunta, though he exhausts himself and ends up in the hospital, where he is visited by Corvin Shadewell. After talking, he and Toren stop Zephros from killing Bren Ironfist in the next room and listen to Zephros's story of his childhood, which Toren finds very similar to his own. Zephros prepares to kill them, but Garron Steelhart intervenes and forces Zephros to retreat. On the day of the finals, Toren meets Elara at the Third Training Ground and expresses his doubts about his upcoming match with Aldric. Elara reassures Toren that he never gave up because he always had the strength to overcome his own failures, admiring him for it. Reinvigorated, Toren thanks Elara and tells her even though he first thought she was weird, he now likes her.

Facing Aldric in the first match of the finals, Toren began by creating shadow clones to overwhelm Aldric's with sheer numbers. Deeming Toren a failure who could never defeat a genius like himself, Aldric easily defeats Toren's clones and seals his aether with Eight Trigrams Sixty-Four Palms. Determined to prove Aldric's ideals about fate wrong, Toren tapped into the Crimson Beast' aether and, revitalised, clashed with Aldric. When the smoke cleared, Aldric emerges and Toren lies defeated. This, however, was only a shadow clone, and the real Toren burst from the ground beneath Aldric, defeating him with an uppercut. Before he is declared the winner, Toren tells Aldric that creating clones was once his shortcoming and that Aldric needs to stop believing in inescapable fate. When Kaelen finally arrives for his match with Zephros, Toren is envious of Kaelen's improvements, but is later put to sleep along with most of the audience, commencing the Verdania Crush.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

Lyra wakes up Toren so they can pursue Kaelen, who was pursuing Zephros himself. They arrive in time for Toren to kick Zephros away before he can kill Kaelen. Partially transformed into Shukaku, Zephros knocks Lyra unconscious and binds her to a tree, forcing Toren to battle him, with little success. Toren relates to Zephros's painful life as a beast-bearer, but he is not willing to let anything to happen to Lyra and Kaelen. Determined to protect his friends, Toren creates an army of shadow clones to relentlessly batter Zephros, forcing him to fully transform into Shukaku, to which Toren responds by summoning Gamabunta.

Zephros puts himself to sleep to give control of his body to Shukaku, forcing Toren and Gamabunta to figure out a way to end the arcana. They do so by transforming into a giant fox (the Crimson Beast in the anime) to restrain Shukaku, allowing Toren to awaken Zephros with a solid punch to the face. Shukaku's influence disappears, but Zephros regains control and traps Toren with his sand. Toren escapes by tapping into the Crimson Beast' aether, and headbutts Zephros when he is close enough, destroying Shukaku's form. Exhausted from the fight, the two leap at each other for one final exchange, and Toren punches Zephros, claiming victory.
Toren and Zephros fell to the ground, unable to move. Slowly crawling towards Zephros, Toren explained that he also suffered a painful and lonely life, but was later saved by having friends. To that end, he will do anything to protect them, even if it means killing Zephros. Understanding Toren's true strength, Zephros retreated with Kankurō and Temari with a new outlook on life, while Toren passes out from exhaustion and is returned to Verdania with Kaelen and a rescued Lyra. A few days later, Team 7 attended the Third Archon's funeral.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis
Valdric is tasked with finding Maelis, a candidate for Fifth Archon, and convinces Toren to accompany him by promising to teach him a technique stronger than Kaelen's Thunderpiercer. Stopping at an inn in Shukuba Town, Toren was approached by Kisame Hoshigaki and Soren Duskborne of The Obsidian Circle, who intend to capture the Crimson Beast. When Kaelen shows up and furiously attacks Soren, Toren gathers the Crimson Beast' aether to help Kaelen, but it is absorbed by Kisame's Samehada. Valdric soon arrives and drives off Soren and Kisame, but Kaelen is left mentally and physically damaged by Soren. Garron Steelhart appears and takes Kaelen back to Verdania, but not before giving Toren a spare green jumpsuit.

To prepare for the next encounter with The Obsidian Circle, Toren begins learning the Spiralstrike, completing two of its three learning steps. Taking a break from training, Toren and Valdric eventually found Maelis and her assistant Shizune at a restaurant. When Maelis refuses the offer to become Archon and insults all who held the title, an angry Toren challenged her to a fight and attacked her with an incomplete Spiralstrike, only to be easily defeated. Impressed by his progress, however, Maelis makes a bet with Toren: if he can master the Spiralstrike in a week, he gets the First Archon's Necklace; if not, she gets his wallet. Toren agreed and spent the week trying to perfect the Spiralstrike, but has no success and collapses from exhaustion. Once he recovers, Toren heads out with Valdric and Shizune to stop Maelis from meeting with Vexaris.

They arrive to see Maelis, who never intended to aid Vexaris, in the midst of battle with Morden Glasswick. When Maelis is incapacitated, Toren fights Morden in her place and eventually defeats him with a perfected Spiralstrike, which he formed by using a shadow clone. Toren collapses almost immediately afterwards, his heart muscles torn by Morden, but Maelis successfully manages to heal him, gives him the necklace he wins, and accepts the position of Archon. After Vexaris and Morden are defeated, Toren and the others return to Verdania, Maelis confidently believing Toren would someday become a great Archon.

Land of Tea Escort Mission
Main article: Land of Tea Escort Mission

After Kaelen is healed by Maelis, Team 7 is assigned the mission of escorting a racer from the Land of Tea without Riven. Along the way, they meet an arrogant boy named Idate who openly shows his hatred towards sentinel. He also shows off his impressive speed by running away from Team 7 after conning them into paying his bill at a restaurant. Upon arriving in the Land of Tea and meeting the Wasabi family's leader, Jirōchō, Toren and his teammates are shocked to see Idate again and even more so as they learn that he is the client they're supposed to escort. During the race, Toren and Idate continue to show their dislike of each other. He also learns that Idate is the younger brother of Ibiki, and they also come across the three Ame novice from the The Ascension Trials. After defeating them, Team 7 and Idate run into Aoi Rokushō, a former Verdania adept who betrayed Verdania to join Rainveil. He was also originally Idate's teacher and the one responsible for Idate running away from Verdania. After barely surviving Aoi’s attack, Idate explains how after he was failed by Ibiki himself from the The Ascension Trials, Aoi tricked Idate into stealing a special scroll and the Sword of the Thunder God from the village. Being able to relate with Idate in both being taken advantage of and the need to have others recognise them, Toren helps Idate regain his self-worth and continue the race. 

While managing to catch up in the race, Aoi confronts Team 7 and Idate once again, and uses the Thunder Sword to initially overpower the Team 7. But thanks to Kaelen fighting Aoi and weakening the sword with his Thunderpiercer, Toren is able to destroy it when they clash, and defeats Aoi with his Spiralstrike. With the danger now passed, Toren helps Idate catch up to Fukusuke Hikyakuya, the other racer. Though Fukusuke is already near the finish line, with determination and encouragement from Toren, Idate manages to catch up and win the race, seemingly saving the Wasabi family in the nick of time. However, the Tea Daimyō's minister objects, claiming that Idate cheated as Toren carried him for part of the race. According to the minister, this violates the rule that the runners must do the race on their own two legs. Just as it seems that Idate will be disqualified and the Wasabi family will be disbanded forever, the Tea Daimyō himself objects, declaring that no such rule exists. He then reveals a photo of the minister taking a bribe from the Wagarashi family, explaining why he had invented the rule. As a result of this, as well as other poor conduct, the Wagarashi are forcibly disbanded for all time. Afterwards, Team 7 return to Verdania in order to send Kaelen to the hospital for the injuries he suffered during his battle with Aoi.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Toren visits a recovering Kaelen at the hospital, but is immediately challenged to a fight, to which Toren eventually agrees. The fight escalates quickly, culminating with Toren using Spiralstrike and Kaelen using Thunderpiercer. Riven arrives and deflects their attacks into opposing water towers before they can clash, Toren unknowingly doing more damage than Kaelen. Distressed by Kaelen's behaviour, Lyra informs Toren of the cursed seal Kaelen received from Vexaris, though Toren assures Lyra that Kaelen would never abandon Verdania for power. Unfortunately, Kaelen does just that and Toren joins the Kaelen Recovery Team in order to bring him back; he promises a tearful Lyra to do so before he leaves. En route to Kaelen, the team encounters members of the Sound Four, each of which battles a member of the recovery team, while Toren engages Kimimaro. Overwhelmed by Kimimaro's body arcana skills, Toren is saved at the last minute by Bren Ironfist, who volunteers to fight Kimimaro while Toren heads after Kaelen.

Toren finally meets Kaelen at the Rift of Echoes. His pleas for Kaelen to come back to Verdania and warns him that Vexaris will take his body, but his pleadings fall on deaf ears. Toren starts attacking him, ready to take him back to Verdania by force if necessary. Undeterred, Kaelen responds by tapping into his cursed seal and landing a series of heavy blows on Toren. It becomes painfully clear to Toren that Kaelen is fighting with an intent to kill, so Toren utilises the Crimson Beast' aether to overpower Kaelen. Toren says that Kaelen is like a brother to him and that he will do anything to protect that bond. Kaelen vows to sever that bond, but acknowledges Toren as an equal by putting on his forehead protector. They continue trading blows, with Toren eventually manifesting a fox-shaped cloak and Kaelen entering his cursed seal's second level. Toren clashes his Spiralstrike with Kaelen's Thunderpiercer, and within the dome of resulting energy they trade final blows: Kaelen punches Toren and Toren scratches Kaelen's forehead protector.

When the energy dissipates, Toren lies defeated, but Kaelen spares him and continues his way to Vexaris, leaving his scratched forehead protector behind. Riven and Pakkun arrive late and failing to retrieve Kaelen, leave with Toren. In the hospital, Toren once again promises Lyra to bring Kaelen back one day. Soon after, Valdric arrived with an offer to train Toren for preparation against Vexaris and The Obsidian Circle in three years and to give up on Kaelen, as he is no different from Vexaris. Toren accepts Valdric's training, but refuses to give up on Kaelen, satisfying Valdric.

Original Anime Arcs
See also: Plot of Toren

As in the manga, Toren later departs with Valdric to begin his two and a half years of training, after making a determined gesture at the Fourth Archon's statue. In the anime, this does not happen until about 3 months later as Valdric was occupied with important intel gathering about The Obsidian Circle for Verdania. During the waiting period, Maelis gives Toren several missions with members of the Verdania 11 to keep him busy.

Interlude

In the anime, shortly after leaving Verdania, Valdric and Toren discuss the fact that Toren will need to learn how to counter mind arcana if he hopes to be a match against Kaelen the next time they meet. Toren practises with Gamariki to dispel mind arcana, but he struggles with it and his aether keeps hitting Gamariki, who doesn't appreciate it. Toren follows Valdric to the Mind Arcana Tree Village to try a different approach, but they discover the village has been taken over by Kandachi. They free the villagers and then attack Kandachi, who Toren eventually defeats with his newly-created Big Ball Spiralstrike. As they leave afterwards, Valdric is pleased by how similar Toren is to Auren Solwind and hugs him, which Toren is bothered by.

In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Two years into their training, Toren's control of the Crimson Beast' aether has improved significantly. Valdric tries to give him more access to the Crimson Beast' power and uses Gerotora to weaken Toren's Eight Trigrams Sealing Style. Seizing the opportunity, the Crimson Beast mocked Toren for his inability to save Kaelen, using Toren's negative emotions to force him to enter a version 2 form with four tails. Not in control of his body, Toren attacks Valdric and nearly kills him before he manages to suppress the Crimson Beast. Toren has no memory of what happened and Valdric doesn't tell him, instead, shifting Toren's training to other pursuits, including keeping his anger in check so that the Crimson Beast won't flare up again.

Part II
See also: Plot of Toren: Shippūden

Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Toren and Valdric return to Verdania after two-and-a-half years of training, where Toren becomes surprised by Maelis's newly-formed statue on Archon Rock. He greets his old friends afterwards: he gives Riven a copy of Icha Icha Tactics as a gift; he catches up with Lyra, whom he has become taller than; he gets back into a competition of Sexy Techniques with Verdaniamaru Embercrown, only to be violently reprimanded by Lyra. Riven reforms Team 7 with them and gives them another bell test, but unlike last time, taking the bells from him is the real objective. As with last time, Toren launches a first attack before the test officially begins, but this time it nearly succeeds. Despite their improved abilities, Toren and Lyra were still unable to get a bell through conventional means, and it was only by Toren's threat to spoil the latest Icha Icha novel that they distracted Riven long enough to take the bells.
While Team 7 tries without success to find a mission to go on that Toren won't complain about, word reaches Verdania that The Obsidian Circle has kidnapped Zephros, the Sand Archon. Team 7 is sent to Duneholm to assist in rescuing Zephros. On their way to Suna, Toren explains that Zephros was kidnapped because he is the beast-bearer of the One-Tail, just as Toren is the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast. Upon arrival in Suna, Toren defends Riven from Chiyo's assault when she mistakes him for his father. Team 7 gathers what intel they can on Zephros's kidnappers and leave to go after them; Chiyo volunteers to escort them since they aren't familiar with the country around Suna. Toren promises a recovering Kankurō to rescue Zephros before they leave.

While en route to an The Obsidian Circle lair, they are confronted by Soren Duskborne, who traps Toren in a mind arcana. Lyra and Chiyo release him, allowing Toren to team up with Riven and defeat Soren with a Big Ball Spiralstrike. The Soren is discovered to be an impostor, so they continue to the The Obsidian Circle lair, meeting up with Team Garron, who takes down the barrier over the entrance so that Team 7 can get in. They find Zephros's body finds with his kidnappers, Deidara and Sasori. Deidara flies off with Zephros's body with Toren and Riven in pursuit, leaving Sasori to Chiyo and Lyra. Toren, enraged, makes repeated failed attempts to rescue Zephros before he is calmed by Riven, who uses his new Ascended Eclipse Eye to distract Deidara with Kamui. Toren retrieves Zephros's body, but seeing it drives him over the edge: he furiously attacks Deidara and beats him mercilessly into the ground. Discovering that it was a Clay Clone, Toren slips into his two-tailed form in rage, but is restored to normal by Riven via the Aether-Suppressing Seal.

Deidara escapes, while Toren and Riven regroup with Lyra, Chiyo, and Team Garron. Lyra attempts to revive Zephros, but the removal of Shukaku has caused him to die. Toren breaks down in tears and angrily lashes out at Chiyo, saying she had no right to make Zephros not only a beast-bearer, but also lose his life because of it. As atonement and with Toren's aid, Chiyo sacrifices her life to revive Zephros; as the arcana nears completion, Chiyo voices her faith in Toren's ability to save Zephros and to become Archon. Toren greets Zephros when he awakens, and a few days later, Teams 7 and Garron attend Chiyo's funeral in Suna. Before returning home, Toren and Zephros shake hands (Zephros using his sand) as a sign of their close relationship.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission

During her fight with Sasori, Lyra learned of an opportunity to meet with a spy in Vexaris's ranks in a few days' time, hoping it will lead them to Kaelen. Riven is left bedridden from his fight with Deidara, so Yamato leads Team 7 as his replacement. Replacing Kaelen on the team is Sai, whom Toren actually encounters earlier and dislikes, declaring him an inferior version of Kaelen. Sai is happy for this distinction and proceeds to degrade Kaelen for defecting from Verdania, forcing Yamato to use his Wood Release to break up their fight. Toren is constantly exasperated by Sai's lack of empathy and his ridicule of Kaelen, but resolves to work with Sai if it means saving Kaelen.

Yamato disguises himself as Sasori and goes to the Tenchi Bridge to meet the spy while Toren, Lyra, and Sai hide nearby. The spy, Morden Glasswick, begins telling Yamato about Vexaris's organisation, but they are interrupted by the arrival of Vexaris, who teams up with Morden to fight Yamato, having intended to kill Sasori. Team 7 comes to his aid and Vexaris, recognising them, taunts Toren about Kaelen. Toren is enraged and strikes him, using his version 1 form to make his attacks more devastating. Toren's rage intensifies as he submits to the Crimson Beast' influence: he destroys the Tenchi Bridge and eventually advances to his version 2 form while fighting Vexaris. Toren is soon forced back to the destroyed bridge, where, unable to tell friend from foe, he unknowingly attacks Lyra when she approaches him.

Yamato restrains Toren with his Wood Release and suppresses the Crimson Beast' influence, but its aether leaves Toren's body badly damaged. After Lyra heals him, Toren wakes up unable to remember what happened, but is surprised by the devastated landscape. When they realise that Sai is missing, Yamato reports that he has joined with Vexaris and Morden. On the way, Yamato secretly takes Toren aside and tells him that he is the one who attacked Lyra. He encourages Toren to use his own strength instead of the Crimson Beast in order to protect his loved ones. The team locates Sai, whom Yamato has placed a trace on, at Vexaris's lair and capture him. Restrained, Sai asks why Toren is determined to save him; Toren replies that his bond with Kaelen is too precious to be broken and that he will do anything to protect it. Intrigued, Sai switches sides, helping them capture Morden and then searching the base for Kaelen on Toren's behalf. While he's gone, Yamato goes through his belongings and finds evidence that Sai has been assigned to assassinate Kaelen.

When they find Sai, he explains that he truly does want to help retrieve Kaelen, and in fact has already found him: Toren and Lyra are speechless to see Kaelen again. Kaelen reacts with indifference to them, but Toren remarks he can't become Archon without saving his friend. To demonstrate that they mean nothing to him, Kaelen quickly neutralises them all. As Toren struggles to avoid the temptation of using the Crimson Beast, Kaelen suddenly appears in Toren's subconscious using his Eclipse Eye and suppresses the Crimson Beast. He then prepares to kill them, but is persuaded not to by Vexaris and leaves without further comment. Toren is upset at having failed once more to bring Kaelen home, but is reminded by Lyra that they need to become stronger and Team 7 returns to Verdania.

Twelve Guardian Sentinel
Main article: Twelve Guardian Sentinel (Arc)

In the anime, Team Riven, with Yamato still in command, is sent on a mission to the Fire Temple. There, they met Sora, a young monk who openly expresses his dislike of Toren, with the two bickering at every opportunity. Despite this, Sora is added to their team to help investigate the grave robberies of several former members of the Twelve Guardian Sentinel. Shortly after the investigation begins, Toren learns that the other monks have long treated Sora much like the villagers of Verdania treated him: with contempt, hatred, and keeping their distance from him. Toren questions him about it, but Sora simply replies that he doesn't blame them.
Upon encountering the grave robbers, Toren is forced to fight Fūka, a woman who, much to his shock, repeatedly attempts to kiss him. Through the use of the Phantom Double Technique, he is able to evade her advances, only to discover that she is a master of all five nature transformations, a feat that was unheard of by then. Despite his best efforts, however, Fūka ultimately manages to kiss him, an act that drains all the aether from his body. Once Toren's aether is drained, however, Fūka begins to siphon the Crimson Beast' aether, a force she can't contain and she forces herself off him. She then retreats with her team, and Team Riven returns to Verdania, with Sora as a temporary replacement for Sai.
Toren continues to try to befriend Sora, only for his and the efforts of others in Verdania to be rebuffed. Later, Toren finds Sora, who had just attempted to kill Maelis and Asuma Embercrown, and questions him on his newfound murderous hostility, to which Sora bitterly replies that Asuma murdered his father. Despite Asuma's attempts to explain the situation, Sora refuses to listen and runs away, with Toren pursuing him until being stopped by Fūka. Forced to fight her again, Toren discovers that she apparently regenerates her injuries by switching bodies. Noticing that she has since stopped using certain elements, Toren realizes she possesses some of Fūka's techniques, and that each body had its own affinity that she can switch between. Concluding that her soul resides in her hair, Toren destroys all of Fūka's bodies and strikes her hair with Spiralstrike, killing her, before continuing his pursuit of Sora.

Soon thereafter, Toren learns that not only is Sora's father still alive, but that he was behind several serious thefts and manipulated Sora into attempting to kill Maelis. The most pressing matter, however, is that he had, years earlier, sealed some of Crimson Beast' aether, having gathered it after the Primal Beast's attack on the village, into Sora and attempts to use its power to destroy Verdania. When Sora loses control of the Crimson Beast' aether within him, Toren also begins to struggle to control the Crimson Beast, but is ultimately able to hold the Primal Beast's influence back, and is able to reach Sora and help him return to normal. Afterwards, Crimson Beast' aether is expelled from Sora's body, and with the situation finally over, Sora departs to travel the world. 

The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission
Main article: The Obsidian Circle Suppression Mission

Once Riven is done recuperating in the hospital, he assembles Toren, Lyra, and Sai to discuss their failed mission to retrieve Kaelen. Riven believes the best way to match Kaelen is for Toren to create a new arcana. As the training began, Toren discovers that his nature is wind and learns to use the wind nature. Ordinarily, such training would take months or years, but Riven advises that Toren, by training alongside hundreds of shadow clones can do the same training in a mere fraction of the time. With Riven's instructions and the training grounds created by Yamato, Toren quickly masters how to use the wind nature. The next step is more difficult for him: combining that nature with the Spiralstrike.

Like Riven and Auren Solwind before him, Toren fails several times in trying to combine his nature with the Spiralstrike; his frustration evokes the Crimson Beast' aether at times, which Yamato suppresses. With further advice from Riven, Toren finds his solution using two shadow clones: one helps him form the Spiralstrike and the other adds his wind nature. When they receive news that Asuma died in battle with members of The Obsidian Circle, they take a break to attend Asuma's funeral. Riven leaves Yamato in charge of overseeing Toren's training so he could help Team 10 avenge Asuma. Having finished his arcana, Toren and Team Yamato went to provide assistance, arriving in time to save Riven and Team 10 from Kakuzu. Toren engages Kakuzu alone with his newly-created Wind Release: Rasenstar blade, though it dissipates on its first use and Toren is rescued by Riven and Yamato. The technique succeeds the second time, destroying two of Kakuzu's hearts and putting the last one on the brink of failure. Riven finishes off Kakuzu and they return to Verdania.
The Rasenstar blade injures Toren's arm after use and he is forbidden to use the technique ever again. When they visit Ichiraku Ramen, Toren has a hard time eating while his arm mends, so Lyra opts to help, before the responsibility falls to Sai, then to Riven. As they leave afterwards, they are met by Verdaniamaru, who demonstrates his Sexy: Girl on Girl Technique; Toren approves but Lyra is disgusted and violently reprimands him. In the manga, Verdaniamaru responds with Sexy: Boy on Boy Technique; Lyra approves but Toren is disgusted and violently reprimands him.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, while Toren is still recovering from overusing his Rasenstar blade, Valdric appears to congratulate his student on his latest achievements: defeating one of the The Obsidian Circle members and completing Auren's arcana. Valdric offers to take him on another training trip, which Toren quickly agrees to. In fact, the main reason for Toren's withdrawal from Verdania is again so he couldn't join Riven and Team 8 on their mission to find Vexaris's last hiding place. For their training, they head to a nearby town to teach Toren how to use cooperation shadow arcana with the toads. Gamariki is initially summoned to help in this endeavor, but when Toren proves unable to work with him, Gamakichi and Gamatatsu are summoned instead.
Later, while resting in one of the hot springs, Toren encounters a young boy named Yūkimaru. They briefly talk about bonds, which makes Yūkimaru happy. When Yūkimaru left, Toren continues his training and begins to succeed in synchronized arcana with Gamakichi and Gamatatsu. Valdric is soon summoned, so they return to Verdania where Gamatatsu and Toren learn how to perform a Water Release-based technique together. Soon after, Toren meets up with Sai, who accidentally lets it slip that the rest of the team are about to assist Riven and Team 8 in their search for Vexaris. Determined to help in order to find Kaelen, Toren convinces Maelis to let him go as well. While searching for Team 8, Toren finds Yūkimaru again and offers him the opportunity to accompany him back to Verdania, to which Yūkimaru responds by quickly disappearing. When Team Yamato is stopped by Guren's crystal barrier, Toren summons Gamakichi and Gamatatsu to help and together, they use Wind Release: Toad Gun to break through the barrier, and on the opposite side, they encounter Team 8. When they realize Elara has been captured, they help rescue her before retreating. The teams follow Guren to a lake, where Toren is sent ahead to scout the area. He finds Guren and her companions (including Yūkimaru) along with the Three-Tails, which creates a wave that carries them all back to shore.

While the teams decide what to do with the Three-Tails, Toren goes off to find Yūkimaru and ends up running into Guren once again. They discuss what would truly make Yūkimaru happy, who soon reveals himself to be fine who despite being appreciate of Toren's efforts, decides to stay by Guren's side. Before he can pursue them, Toren is called back to help with deal with the Three-Tails, with his goal being to prevent Guren and her group from interfering with its sealing. Despite his best efforts, Guren is able to stop the sealing and Yūkimaru uses this as an opportunity to try to control the Primal Beast, causing both Toren and Guren to worry. In the process, the two are swallowed by the Three-Tails, giving them the opportunity to talk and discover what both of their interests in Yūkimaru are. Putting their differences aside, Toren and Guren team up to escape. Once outside, they find Rinji giving Yūkimaru some pills, and after they manage to stop Rinji, they learn that he is actually Morden in disguise. Morden reveals that Rinji had long ago become part of his corpse collection and is promptly reanimated with his medical shadow arcana.
While Toren faces Morden, the resurrected Rinji fights Guren, with the former's ultrasonic waves being more than enough to break Guren's Crystal Release, making it useless against Rinji. After Guren crystallises herself to defeat Rinji, Yūkimaru's grief causes him to let loose his power, driving the Three-Tails into a frenzy, and shattering the seal the Verdania sentinel were very close to completing. Later, when the Three-Tails escaped and Morden disappeared, Toren goes to help the weakened Yūkimaru. Later, Shizune is able to heal Yūkimaru, but explains that his aether network is too damaged and that he'll never be able to control the Three-Tails again. The next morning, after Maelis ordered the team to return to Verdania, Toren discovers that Yūkimaru has disappeared and after seeing that he had left Guren's crystal behind, Toren realizes that Guren is still alive and that she's with Yūkimaru. Knowing that the two are well together, Toren decides not to pursue them and keeps their survival a secret from the others.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

News reaches Verdania that Kaelen has killed Vexaris. Realising that this is a good opportunity to try once again to reunite with Kaelen, Riven combines Teams 7 and 8 into an Eight Man Squad with the mission to find either Kaelen or his assumed target, Soren. When they split up to search, Toren, because he's a target of The Obsidian Circle, is given a protective escort in the form of Elara, Yamato, and Bull. Their group encounters Morden, who offers them intel on The Obsidian Circle and its members, his thanks to Toren "inspiring" him to overcome Vexaris after absorbing his remains. Morden then escapes.

Tale of Valdric the Gallant
Main article: Tale of Valdric the Gallant

After regrouping and Kiba Fangcrest detects Kaelen's trail, Toren creates shadow clones to search the area faster, one of which encounters Soren. Soren repels Toren's attacks and insists he only wants to talk. He asks Toren what Kaelen means to him and what he will do if Kaelen ever moves against Verdania. Toren replies that he is Kaelen's brother – a better brother than Soren is – and that if Kaelen ever attacks the village he will defend it without killing Kaelen. Soren is happy with this answer and gives Toren some assistance for this purpose: a special crow that he stores within Toren's body. Soren left, and Toren continued his search, eventually finding Kaelen.
As they near Kaelen's location they are intercepted by Tobi of The Obsidian Circle, who prevents them from progressing and who is invulnerable to their attacks.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers
As the group continually tries to attack Tobi, he dodges the attacks with ease. Toren tries several times to attack him with his Spiralstrike, but without success. Tobi attempts to use a hidden arcana to attack the teams, but fails at it. Eventually, Zetsu comes to tell him about Kaelen and Soren's fight. Tobi leaves when he receives news that Kaelen has killed Soren, and Teams 7 and 8 try to reach Kaelen before he does. Unable to find where Tobi has taken Kaelen, they are forced to return to Verdania.

Six-Tails Unleashed
Main article: Six-Tails Unleashed

In the anime, after failing to retrieve Kaelen, Toren's journey back to Verdania is interrupted by Katsuyu, sent by Maelis, who sends Team Yamato to help the Tsuchigumo Clan protect the clan's kinarcana, Fury. Upon arriving at the Tsuchigumo clan's fortress, they discover the kinarcana is with the granddaughter of the former clan leader, En no Gyōja. When Team Yamato locate her, Toren attacks the sentinel near her, the Six-Tails' beast-bearer, Utakata, believing him to be the enemy. Upon seeing the strength of the Verdania sentinel, Utakata leaves Hotaru in their care and departs. Due to her desire to be taught by Utakata, Hotaru refuses Team Yamato's help, but Yamato has a plan to use Sai's leeching arcana to frighten Hotaru and force her to accept Team Yamato's help on their journey to Tsuchigumo Village, with Toren blocking all of Sai's ink-based leeches while walking with Hotaru. When they arrive, Team Yamato leaves Hotaru in the care of the villagers, but Toren, noticing the way the villagers looked at her, goes back to make sure everything is okay. When he arrives, however, Toren realizes that Hotaru has been captured by bandits and the villagers haven't even taken care of her, so Toren and his team set out to find her. 

When Toren encounters a group of Misthollow hunter-nin holding Hotaru hostage and trying to capture Utakata, Toren attacks one of the Kiri-nin, freeing Utakata, and attempts to rescue Hotaru. However, before the fighting can escalate further, Yamato and the Kiri Anbu leader, Tsurugi, decide that for the duration of Yamato's team's mission, Utakata will stay with Hotaru and Verdania will not interfere with their capture of the missing-nin afterward, in order to avoid starting an unnecessary war between Verdania and Kiri. Before leaving, Tsurugi tells Toren that Utakata is wanted for the murder of his master, a revelation that shocks Hotaru. Seeing her uncertainty, Toren insists that it doesn't matter what personal faults, and tells her how he can relate as he never knew his parents, but has come to respect and look up to Valdric despite his questionable antics. Hotaru is relieved to hear this, once again determined to learn under Utakata, but promptly collapses from a fever. While Utakata tends to Hotaru, he instructs Toren to find the herbs needed to heal her. When he returns with the herbs, Toren learns that Hotaru had been made a vessel for her clan's kinarcana, not unlike how he was made the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast. Toren is furious to see that Hotaru has been transformed into a living weapon, but she tells him that she had willingly decided to receive the kinarcana seal to help revive her clan. When they arrive at the Tsuchigumo clan's stronghold, where Tonbee was being tended to by Lyra, Tonbee tells her that the Tsuchigumo clan was too weak to ever be restored and believes it best to destroy the kinarcana, using a special technique developed by her grandfather to prevent Hotaru from being harmed in the event that the kinarcana had to be destroyed. However, Hotaru still wishes to revive her clan and asks Toren to find Shiranami, who knows how to use her grandfather's kinarcana. 

Sympathizing with Hotaru's desire to follow her master's dreams, Toren requests two days to find Shiranami. After several failed attempts, Toren is told by an old man he knows where Shiranami lives. After entering his home, however, Toren is ambushed by Shiranami's team, who himself is actually the bandit leader. Trapped within a aether-draining barrier, Toren is rescued by Utakata, who uses the Six-Tails' aether to drive the bandits away. They follow Hotaru, who had been captured by Shiranami and taken to the village, where the villagers are being controlled by a arcana. While Yamato, Lyra, and Sai tend to the villagers, Toren and Utakata go off to rescue Hotaru. When they arrive, Shiranami uses Hotaru to gather the aether needed to use Fury, and manages to the two jinchuuriki with his Character Bind Technique. However, both Toren and Utakata use their primal beast aether to break the attack and move in to attack, only for Shiranami, who gained control of the kinarcana, to use Fury. However, the full energy of Fury fails to activate, causing Shiranami to flee. Despite his attempts, Shiranami is defeated after being struck by Toren's Spiralstrike. After Shiranami's defeat, the Tsuchigumo clan thanks Team Yamato, who then promptly resume their journey back to Verdania.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

As Toren contemplated his meeting with Soren, he was called to the Archon Residence to hear sombre news: his master Valdric was killed by Pain, the leader of The Obsidian Circle. Grief-stricken, Toren blamed Maelis and spent the day mourning his teacher's death, depressed that Valdric cannot see him become Archon. After being comforted by Iruka and Corvin, Toren helped to decipher Valdric's dying message and eventually they succeed. Understanding that Valdric had bought him time for his own fight with Pain, Toren went to train with the toads of Toadcrest Summit to learn senarcana. Toren trained to harmonise with nature, a process he sped up by using a limited number of shadow clones. He rapidly progressed through the training stages and attained a perfect Elder Form, which Valdric was unable to do. News of Pain's Assault on Verdania reached them, they began to mobilise for battle.

As Toren, Fukasaku, Gamaken, Gamahiro, Gamabunta, and Gamakichi were summoned to the centre of Verdania, the group was confronted by the Six Paths of Pain, who had just destroyed the village. After destroying the Asura Path before it could attack Maelis, Toren told her to make sure everyone left the battle to him. After a brief skirmish with Animal Path, Toren and the toads defeated the Animal, Preta, and Human Paths before running out of senarcana aether. Toren revealed that he had two shadow clones waiting back at Toadcrest Summit to revitalise him with natural energy. Toren went back on the offensive, dispatching the healed Preta and Shadewellka Path before the Deva Path regained its full power. Pain killed Fukasaku and used the opportunity to capture Toren, pinning him down to the ground.

With Toren restrained, Pain opened up his reasons for The Obsidian Circle, their plan for the primal beasts, and the peaceful world he wanted to create. Though Toren rejected his notion that using a weapon to force peace, he could offer no alternative. Before Pain could depart with Toren, he was attacked by Elara Moonvane. Declaring her love for Toren and vowing to protect him, she continued to fight against Pain before she was subdued and critically wounded. Believing Elara to had been killed, an enraged Toren erupted into his six-tailed form. Resisting the First Archon's Necklace's attempted to quell the transformation and destroying it, the Crimson Beast attacked Pain, forcing him out of the village to get close enough to his actual body to use the Chibaku Tensei, trapping Toren within the small satellite. The technique was not enough to stop the Crimson Beast, however, as it simply progressed to eight-tailed form to force its way out of the satellite. Meanwhile within his subconscious, Toren was tempted by the Crimson Beast to open its seal to save him from the pain of not having Pain's answer for peace. However, before Toren could, Auren appeared, having left some of his aether within the seal in case of an emergency to protect his son. Overjoyed at meeting his father, but angered that he would condemn him to life as a beast-bearer, Toren listened to his father encouraging him, confident that he would find a way to break the cycle of hatred. After repairing the seal, Auren disappeared and the newly-inspired Toren prepared to resume his battle with Pain.

Confidence restored, Toren was greatly relieved to learn that not only had Elara survived, but nobody was injured during his rampage. After clever use of shadow clones, Toren destroyed the Deva Path with a Spiralstrike, defeating the last of Pain's Six Paths. Using one of Pain's Black Receivers, Toren followed the aether signal to Erevan and Konan's position. Confronting Erevan, Toren listened to Erevan's story that turned him into Pain and came to understand why he made the actions he did. Despite not forgiving him, he told Erevan he would not kill him and would instead try to create the better world that their teacher wished for. Moved by Toren's determination to create a better world, Erevan decided to put his trust in Toren and sacrificed his own life to revive all the people he had killed in Verdania. Toren helped Konan retrieve Erevan and Yahiko's bodies for burial in Rainveil, and Konan left Toren a bouquet of paper flowers for him, symbolising their new alliance.

Toren then created a memorial for Valdric and left the flowers and a copy of The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Sentinel by a rock with the kanji for teacher (師, shi). While the exhausted Toren walked back to the village, he was found by Riven who carried him the rest of the way. Upon arrival, Toren was greeted as a hero by the villagers, his dream of acknowledgement being realised at last.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

Lyra informs Toren that Maelis fell into a coma and that there's nothing that can be done to bring her out of it. While they talk, they are approached by Tazuna and Inari, who have come to help rebuild Verdania. They ask about Kaelen, which Toren avoids going into detail about so as to spare them and Lyra a discussion about Kaelen's defection. After Tazuna and Inari leave, they receive news that Danzō Shimura has become the next Archon and that he has ordered Kaelen be killed as a traitor. Toren and Lyra approach Sai to ask him how they can convince Danzō to change his mind, but Sai is unable to help. Omoi and Karui of Stormspire overhear them talking about Kaelen and they ask for information about Kaelen, wishing to kill him for his role in The Obsidian Circle's capture of Raxon Thundermane. Toren leads Omoi and Karui away to spare Lyra pain, but refuses to reveal anything about Kaelen. Instead, Toren allows the Kumo-nin vent their anger by beating him, to which Karui obliges until Sai stops her and the Kumo-nin retreat.

Recovering later, Toren asked Yamato and Riven to take him to the Land of Iron, so that he could ask Fourth Storm Archon to pardon Kaelen. Upon arrival, the Storm Archon rejected Toren's request even with Riven and Yamato's assistance and berated him for defending a criminal. Toren went to a local inn to ponder his next course of action, but was soon confronted by Tobi, who wanted to understand Erevan's change of heart. Toren ignored the question and demanded to know about his plans with Kaelen. Tobi told him about the Sage of the Six Paths, the Duskborne clan, and the truth about the The Duskborne Purge, all of which now drove Kaelen along a path of vengeance against Verdania and anyone else who would dare cross his path. Toren insisted that he could still get through to Kaelen, but Tobi laughed and left, saying that Toren and Kaelen were fated to fight again.

While Toren was practising his Elder Form's sensory abilities to locate Kaelen, he was interrupted by the arrival of Lyra, Bren Ironfist, Kiba and Sai. Lyra attempted to dissuade Toren in his attempts to bring Kaelen back to Verdania by falsely telling him that she loved him. However, Toren knew she was lying and he rejected her confession and her proposal to abandon Kaelen, stating it had nothing to do with his promise to her. After Lyra's party left, Sai's ink clone revealed that the rest of the Verdania 11 had decided to kill Kaelen themselves to prevent another war, while Lyra planned to kill Kaelen herself, at Sai's unintended insistence. Zephros, who attended the Five Archon Summit that Kaelen attacked, arrived and revealed Tobi's declaration of the The Great Convergence War, telling Toren how they would be fighting Kaelen to protect Toren, but he did advise Toren to consider for himself what was the right thing to do. After hearing that most of his friends have turned against Kaelen, who now wanted to unleash his vengeance on just about everyone, Toren hyperventilated and passed out. When he awoke, he was told by Yamato that Riven went to stop Lyra from dealing with Kaelen.

Using a shadow clone as a decoy, Toren escaped from the inn and followed Riven, arriving just in time to save Lyra from being killed by Kaelen. He tried once more to reason with Kaelen, sympathising with his pain and acknowledging Soren's sacrifice. However, Kaelen was unmoved and declared his resolve to destroy Verdania and sever the Duskborne's connection to the sentinel world. Toren then clashed his Spiralstrike with Kaelen's Thunderpiercer, realising that everything in his life he could have easily gone down the same path of Kaelen. Despite his jealousy of him, he had come to like Kaelen and was glad to have met him. Undeterred, Kaelen gave Toren two options: kill or be killed; Toren chose neither. Tobi and Zetsu arrived and prepared to depart with Kaelen. Toren resolved that if he and Kaelen were to battle again, they would kill each other, but he was willing to accept it as he would shoulder Kaelen's hatred alone. Kaelen vowed to kill Toren first and left with Tobi and Zetsu, while Toren and his teammates returned to Verdania, with the captive Karin. Toren explained the situation to his friends and asked to fight Kaelen alone, determined to get stronger for their upcoming battle.

Power
Main article: Power (Arc)

Paradise Life on a Boat
Main article: Paradise Life on a Boat

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown

As Toren was about to eat at Ichiraku, he was suddenly summoned back to Toadcrest Summit by Fukasaku. He learns from the Great Toad Sage's fortune that he would meet an "octopus" and would battle a "young man with powerful eyes." When Gerotora was summoned to give Toren the "key" to the Eight Trigrams Seal, Toren knew he would need the Crimson Beast' power for the battles to come and accepted the key. Toren was sent back to Ichiraku, where some of the villagers asked for his autograph. Toren was unaware that the five Archon were planning to keep him from participating in the upcoming The Great Convergence War. For his safety, Maelis gave Toren an "S-rank mission" on a remote island in the Realm of Storms with Yamato, Garron Steelhart, Aoba Yamashiro, and other Verdania-nin as security.
Once at the island, Toren met Raxon Thundermane, the beast-bearer of Eight-Tails, and requested to train under him after marvelling at B's mastery of his primal beast. B refused as he was on vacation, despite Toren's best efforts to impress him. However, when Motoi heard Toren bumped fists with B, he took Toren was taken to Falls of Truth, where B trained to control the Eight-Tails. Following Motoi's instructions, Toren sat on the platform in front of the waterfall and closed his eyes to see his true self: Dark Toren, who berated Toren on how quickly the Verdania villagers changed their opinions of him and exclaimed that the Crimson Beast liked him better. Inside his mind, Toren fought his dark self, but found that they were evenly matched. Breaking out of meditation, Toren questioned Motoi about B's history in order to learn how to conquer his inner darkness.

Toren reminisced about how B and Zephros changed everyone's opinions about them and began to doubt if the Verdania villagers sincerely trusted him. After witnessing B save Motoi from a giant squid and resume their friendship, an inspired Toren returned to the Falls of Truth and confronted Dark Toren again. With Toren now having faith in himself, Dark Toren began to weaken as he asked what his reason for existing was. Toren answered by hugging him, accepted Dark Toren as a part of him while thanking him for pushing him to become a better person. Dark Toren finally relented and faded. B led Toren and Yamato to a special room in the secret temple behind the waterfall, where Toren was prepared to fight the Crimson Beast for its aether. Within his subconscious, Toren unlocked the seal and engaged the Crimson Beast in battle using Elder Form. Though he appeared to have the upper hand and drain the Crimson Beast' aether, the fox instantly planted its own hatred within its absorbed aether, consuming Toren.

Just before Toren was completely consumed, the spirit of his mother, Kushina Solwind, appeared. Toren believed that Kushina was the Crimson Beast in disguise, earning a hit on the head and an immediate apology from her, who hoped that he did not inherit her short-temper. Realising Kushina was his mother, he tearfully hugged her and the love-filled reunion purged the Crimson Beast' hatred within its drained aether. With renewed confidence from hearing the story of his parents, Toren battled the Crimson Beast once more. With his mother's assistance, Toren successfully weakens the fox long enough to separate it from its aether. Attaining the Crimson Beast Aether Mode, Toren imprisons the emaciated and infuriated Crimson Beast within a new, stronger seal, apologising to it as it faded into darkness. Afterwards, Toren learned from Kushina about his heritage, the truth behind the Crimson Beast' attack on Verdania, and how his parents gave their lives to protect him. Toren told his mother that he could finally understand what a parent's love felt like and that he didn't blame them for what happened, instead feeling glad to be their son. As she fades away, Kushina tearfully hugged Toren, thanking him for letting her and Auren be his parents.

In the real world, Toren demonstrated his Crimson Beast Aether Mode to B and Yamato before sensing Kisame Hoshigaki of The Obsidian Circle hidden inside his Samehada via his negative emotions. When Kisame attempted to escape, Toren used his blinding speed to quickly smash Kisame into the wall, though his foot gets stuck. Yamato helps Toren out while B pursues Kisame and they regroup to see Kisame's defeat by Garron. Kisame is restrained for interrogation, though he breaks free of his confinements through sheer will and summons sharks inside a water prison to eat him alive. Shocked by Kisame's suicide, Toren observes that even those in The Obsidian Circle fight for their comrades. They examine the intel that Kisame was trying to send, which turns out to be booby-trapped: they are each caught in a water prison and are trapped alongside a shark. Another shark, meanwhile, is able to escape with Kisame's intel. After they escape, Toren is tasked with evacuating the giant animals into the Island Turtle's shell and logging the island's ecology as part of his "official" S-rank mission. He remains unaware that it is a ploy to keep him away from the war.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

Toren returned to the Falls of Truth with B to start practising his Crimson Beast Aether Mode, specifically learning how to use Primal Beast Balls. Since Primal Beast Balls couldn't be made without the Crimson Beast' cooperation, Toren tried to create the Primal Beast Spiralstrike as a workaround. While struggling to balance the arcana's composition, he sensed a distant source of the Crimson Beast' aether. Toren left the Falls of Truth to investigate and was met by a contingent of Verdania-nin, amongst them Iruka Umino. Iruka tried to convince him to go back to his training, but Toren bypassed them and, from entering Elder Form, sensed the ongoing The Great Convergence War. Toren became angry that they would try to keep the war a secret from him and that they wouldn't let him help. Iruka apologised, yet still made an effort to restrain him. Toren escaped and found a Self-Repairing Barrier, preventing him from leaving by himself. B, at Iruka's request, decided to join him, and together they broke through the barrier.

Shortly after, the Crimson Beast pulled Toren into his subconscious, berating him for squandering its aether and calling him naive for thinking he could stop the war by himself. When the Crimson Beast failed to once again tempt Toren with power, the fox went off to claim that his attempt to put an end to hatred was futile, using his history with Kaelen as proof. Toren responded by pinning the fox down, refuting that it was the one who was being naive and confidently exclaiming he would find a way to deal with Kaelen and end the war. Before he leaves, Toren also promises to resolve the Crimson Beast' own hatred someday, unnerving the fox.

On their way to the battlefield, Toren and B were met by the Fourth Storm Archon and Maelis, both intent on stopping the beast-bearer. B tried to convince the Storm Archon to let them go, and when that failed, Toren tried to get around them, but the Storm Archon's Lightning Release Aether Mode was too fast for that. The Storm Archon became increasingly aggressive in his determination to stop Toren and B from joining the war effort, going so far as to threaten to kill Toren if it would keep The Obsidian Circle from capturing the Crimson Beast. First B and then Maelis joined Toren in arguing to allow them to fight, which the Storm Archon relented to once Toren dodges his maximum speed. On Maelis's orders, Shikaku Shadewell contacted Toren and informed him about The Obsidian Circle's White Zetsu Army and the accompanying Impure World Reincarnations. Toren and B soon afterwards encountered a squad of seeming Allied forces, but with his Crimson Beast Aether Mode's ability, it allowed him to detect them as disguised Zetsu. He quickly defeated them and sent shadow clones to various other battlefields to lend assistance.

Toren and B soon ran into the reincarnated Soren Duskborne and Erevan. They greeted Toren and briefly caught up on what had happened since their deaths, but were quickly forced to attack by their summoner, Morden Glasswick. Erevan advised Toren and B on how to counter his arcana while Soren, between his own attacks, recalled the crow he planted in Toren during their last meeting. Soren activated the Kotoamatsukami of the crow's Ascended Eclipse Eye to release himself from Morden's influence. Soren joined Toren and B in fighting Erevan, first by neutralising the Void Eye Summoning and then saving them from being killed by Erevan. Erevan, his personality now suppressed, tried capturing them with Chibaku Tensei, which the three combined efforts to destroy. While Erevan was distracted by their attack, Soren sealed him with Susanoo. His personality restored, Erevan used his last moments to apologise and put his faith in Toren. Afterwards, Soren destroyed the crow, its Kotoamatsukami too valuable to let fall into the wrong hands. He left to find Morden so that he could end the Impure World Reincarnation, but not before telling Toren to let his friends support him and leaving Kaelen's reform to him.

A shadow clone arrived at the site of the Fourth Division's battle with various reincarnated Archon. Toren was able to land a sneak attack on Mū, allowing the Third Stone Archon to seal him before he could say anything. The Stone Archon went to help Zephros fight the Second Mist Archon, leaving Toren to fight the Third Storm Archon along with the other members of the Fourth Division. Like the Fourth Storm Archon, the Third was very fast, easily dodging most attacks. The few attacks that did land had almost no effect, his body's natural defence was too high, and the Storm Archon's offences allowed him to break through every attempt to contain him. When Toren noticed that the Storm Archon had a scar from his fight with the Eight-Tails years earlier, he contacted it via B to ask how the Storm Archon received the scar. Upon hearing the Eight-Tails' answer, Toren surmises the scar was self-inflicted, confirming it as he manipulates the Third into piercing his own body. The Third is sealed and Toren regroups with the Stone Archon and Zephros, who already defeated the Second Mist Archon.
As Toren and B continued onwards, Toren's shadow clones started arriving at various locations. In the anime, shadow clones were able to: save the members of the Kaelen Recovery Team from the reincarnated Sound Four's Space–Time Technique Formula: Underworld Turnover; update Tatewaki about the fates of the children he was responsible for during life, granting him peace and allowing him to return to the afterlife; run in to Yota, a childhood friend, and giving Yota a chance to play with him again before releasing himself from the Impure World Reincarnation; assist Omoi in saving the Thundercloud Unit.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Shadow clones arrived at all the remaining battlefields, securing Impure World Reincarnations, weeding out the Zetsu that had infiltrated the Alliance's ranks, and defeating any other remaining Zetsu. Victory seemed near when the Sensor Division detected a new threat near the Fourth Division: Mu, who split himself before his sealing, and the reincarnated Theron Duskborne. Shocked by this revelation, they all wondered who the masked man, Tobi, really was. Theron gave them little time to discuss it and attacked them immediately. He cut swaths through the Fourth Division's ranks and used his Void Eye to avoid the clone's, the Stone Archon's, and Zephros's counterattack. Wishing to eliminate them all at once, Theron dropped a meteorite on them.

While the survivors regroup, Theron tried to summon the Crimson Beast. Although it failed, the fox sensed the attempt and offered some aether to help fight Theron, preferring Toren over the Duskborne. The shadow clone used the Crimson Beast' aether to counter Theron's Nativity of a World of Trees with Big Ball Spiralling Serial Zone Spheres, though the extended fighting left the clone exhausted afterwards. Theron moved in to capture it, but was parried by the arrival of Maelis, the Fourth Storm Archon, and the Fifth Mist Archon. The Five Archon vowed to deal with Theron themselves and asked that Toren should instead focus on defeating Tobi. The clone dispersed just as the real Toren converged on Tobi. Toren and B clashed with Tobi's reincarnated beast-bearer, styled like a Six Paths of Pain. During the fighting, Toren referenced another Theron and asked who Tobi really was. Realising his lie was exposed, Tobi refused to accept any particular identity, believing it to be irrelevant. Toren was not satisfied with this answer and vowed to break Tobi's mask.

B entered Primal Beast Mode to clear the surrounding forest that was giving him and Toren a disadvantage against the reincarnated beast-bearer. He then tried to seal the beast-bearer, but Tobi had them enter Version 2 forms to escape at the last second. The increased strength of the beast-bearer caused difficulties for Toren and B. Tobi, taking advantage of the situation, nearly captured Toren, but was blocked by the arrival of Riven and Garron. Their arrival balanced out the two sides, so Tobi had the Four-Tails and the Six-Tails enter Primal Beast Modes as well. The Four-Tails captured Toren in its mouth, allowing it to communicate with him. The Four-Tails, introducing itself with the name Son Gokū, was angered to be controlled by Tobi, but it doubted Toren would be any better since humans had always sought to control it and its fellow primal beasts. Toren insisted he was different and Son Gokū, touched by his desire to help it, told him how to release it from Tobi's control. Toren managed to break out of its mouth, locate the black receiver, and remove it.

Son Gokū thanked Toren for his help, but explained that it couldn't actually be saved, as it was still bound to the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. Before it was pulled back into the Demonic Statue, Son Gokū gave some of its aether to Toren and wished him luck. Tobi, having lost the use of one primal beast, forced the others to enter Primal Beast Modes so that the battle could be brought to an end. The Crimson Beast remarked that Toren couldn't possibly win without its help. Toren stated that he was not up for taking its aether by force at the moment and that he would figure something out. However, Toren's earlier determination to help Son Gokū moved the Crimson Beast, reminding it of the many selfless things Toren had done during his life and the perseverance he always displayed. The Crimson Beast no longer wanted to oppose Toren and instead offered to join him as a partner, asking only that Toren call it by name: Pyraxis.

Toren entered his own Primal Beast Mode and went to save Riven and Garron, deflecting the other five beasts' Primal Beast Balls. The Pyraxis avatar fought the beasts in close combat, forcing them to combine their Primal Beast Balls into one against it. Pyraxis countered theirs with a single one of its own Primal Beast Balls and Toren then used the avatar's tails to grab and remove the beasts' black receivers. From the contact, Toren was able to interface with the other beasts, who introduced themselves and, like Son Gokū, gave him portions of their aether. Tobi recalled the beasts back into the Demonic Statue and, though irritated, remained confident in his eventual victory as he faced off with Toren, B, Riven, and Garron. By the time night fell, however, Tobi was still unable to defeat them. A light eventually descended on the reincarnated beast-bearer that B had kept restrained, returning them to the afterlife and signalling that Soren had finally defeated Morden.

With his options running out, Tobi deposited the Benihisago and the Kohaku no Jōhei (which contained portions of Pyraxis's aether) into the Demonic Statue which, combined with a fragment of the Eight-Tails, Gyūki's, aether he acquired previously, was enough to start the revival of the Ten-Tails. Toren, B, Riven, and Garron started focusing on destroying it, but were constantly stopped by Tobi and his peculiar teleportation and intangibility abilities. From the fighting, however, Riven noticed that Tobi's abilities were seemingly linked to his own Kamui. To take advantage of this, Riven had one of Toren's shadow clones attack Tobi and, just as the clone was about to be destroyed by one of Tobi's attacks, Riven used Kamui on it without Tobi noticing. Toren then attacked with a Primal Beast Ball, which Tobi escaped by retreating to Kamui's dimension. He found the clone waiting for him there and it destroyed his mask with a Spiralstrike.
When they saw his face, Garron and Riven recognised Tobi as their childhood friend, Draven Duskborne, whom they'd long thought dead. Draven declined to explain his actions to them and instead attacked, which attracted Theron, who escaped the release of the Impure World Reincarnation, to their location. Seeing Theron, Toren asked what happened to the Archon, to which the elder Duskborne replied that they were in bad condition when he left them. From that and the conversation he overheard between Theron and Draven, particularly their manipulation of Erevan, Toren attacked in a rage. Theron reflected him and then tried to capture him and B so that the Ten-Tails could be revived in its complete form. Toren split his attention, he and B fighting Theron's wood dragon with their Primal Beast Modes and one of his shadow clones trying to help Riven get over the revelation that Draven was alive.

Draven tried to convince Toren of the futility of resistance. Toren insisted that protecting his comrades was always worthwhile, no matter how hopeless things may seem. His words brought Riven out of his slump, enabling him to start fighting Draven on his own, and energised Garron, who created an opening for Toren and B to attack the Demonic Statue with a combined Primal Beast Ball. The attack came too late, however, and the Ten-Tails was revived. Toren, B, Riven, and Garron regrouped and coordinated an attack, but the Ten-Tails was too powerful and Theron and Draven, once they linked themselves to it, were able to deploy its powers effectively. Just before they could kill Toren and the others, the combined remaining Allied Sentinel Forces arrived to help. Shikaku Shadewell, communicating to all of them from the Alliance's headquarters, staged an offensive to restrain the Ten-Tails. Although it failed, it was effective enough that Theron and Draven had the Ten-Tails destroy the distant headquarters, killing Shikaku and everyone else stationed there.
The Allies made individual attacks against the Ten-Tails, but none had any effect. At the same time, the Ten-Tails started raining wooden skewers all over the battlefield, killing many. When one was about to hit Toren, Elara shielded him with her body and Aldric shielded her with his own. Dying, Aldric collapsed on Toren's shoulder, asking him to be more careful in the future since many lives, Elara's particularly, now depend on his. With his last breath, he thanked Toren for calling him a genius all those years ago. Toren was deeply distraught by Aldric's death, which Draven tried to use as an example of the needless death that resistance caused and that could be solved in the new world he wanted to create. Elara brought Toren back to his senses by reminding him of all the people who had given their lives to protect him and whose memories he would be insulting if he had given up now. As Toren thanked her, he took her hand and coated her with some of Pyraxis's aether.

Toren shared Pyraxis's aether throughout the Allied Forces, increasing their strength and protecting them from harm. They all manoeuvred into a formation that Shikaku was able to communicate to them before he died and, taking the form of a bird in memory of Aldric, successfully removed the Ten-Tails from Draven and Theron's control. Forced to fend for themselves, Draven sought out Toren, criticising him for wasting his energy protecting others. Toren replied that protecting them actually gave him strength, motivating everyone within earshot. They then sensed the Ten-Tails was about to attack, which Riven tried to stop with Kamui. Draven intercepted him and they teleported away, leaving the others to endure the Ten-Tails' Tenpenchii. Pyraxis's aether protected everyone, but it faded in the aftermath; Toren was left quite beaten up, requiring Lyra to heal him. When the Ten-Tails attacked with another Primal Beast Ball, the Allies mustered what little defence they could. Before it could reach them, however, the Primal Beast Ball was suddenly teleported away and Toren's reincarnated father, Auren Solwind, appeared at Toren's side.

The First, Second, and Third Archon arrived soon afterward and, along with Auren, erected a barrier around the Ten-Tails to confine it. Kaelen arrived shortly too, at whose request the previous Archon were reincarnated by Vexaris and who now opposed Draven and Theron. Their fellow Rookie Nine had set aside their differences with Kaelen for the time being and joined forces in launching an attack against the Ten-Tails' cruft. On Sai's advice, Toren, Kaelen, and Lyra all summoned their signature animals (Toren calling on Gamakichi) in order to focus directly on the Ten-Tails itself. Toren and Kaelen successfully damaged the Ten-Tails' arm with a combined Scorch Release: Halo Hurricane Jet Black Arrow Style Zero, but it merely removed the arm to prevent the flames of Kaelen's Amaterasu from spreading.
Before they could attack again, Draven returned, landing on top of the Ten-Tails head and seemingly about to use the Samsara of Heavenly Life Technique to restore Theron to life. While everyone focused on stopping Draven, Toren couldn't help but notice that the hand seals he was using were different from what Erevan used. Auren tried to cut Draven down, but discovered that it was too late as he sealed the Ten-Tails into his body, becoming its beast-bearer.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Draven used his new power to destroy the barrier, forcing the Archon to put the energy they were using toward the barrier into the fight instead. Because they had immortal bodies, they launched the first attack so that the others could learn what they could about Draven's new abilities, but they were quickly defeated. Toren and Kaelen engaged him as well, but were nearly killed, saved only by Toren using his aether arms to link to Auren so he could teleport them to safety. Just as before, Toren and Kaelen combined their attacks, having Auren and the Second Archon coordinate teleports so that the attack would connect. Draven's Truth-Seeking Balls dissipated much of the attack and the damage that he did incur was quickly regenerated.

From the development and some of the previous exchanges, Auren concluded that Draven was able to neutralise shadow arcana. Gamakichi, wanting to make some final contribution to the fight before he was forced to return to Toadcrest Summit, attacked with his Starch Syrup Gun. Auren took this opportunity to try and reason with Draven, reminding him of his former dream to become Archon. Draven berated the title and those who had held it, as he had surpassed them. Toren was insulted not only because that was a slight against his father, but also because he hadn't abandoned his dream of being Archon like Draven had. The Second Archon teleported him to Draven and he attacked with a Spiralstrike, which successfully damaged Draven; Toren noticed that Gamakichi's attack wasn't neutralised and realised Draven was vulnerable to senarcana.

With a weakness discovered, Draven trapped the Alliance in a barrier and began charging multiple Primal Beast Balls that he would use to wipe out everyone within its confines. Auren noted that he wouldn't be able to teleport them all away in time, so Toren came up with a different approach: he linked his aether with Auren and remotely restored the Alliance's aether cloaks, networking everyone in with Auren's Flying Thunder God Technique, allowing him to teleport everyone out of the barrier. Auren did so and was afterwards very proud of his son, saying he wished they had more time to talk. Toren replied that it was not necessary since he already met his mother and that she explained everything. Toren and Auren each entered Primal Beast Modes, with Toren merging his with Elder Form in order to imbue their shared Spiralstrike with senarcana. The Second teleported them to Draven and they attacked, but he blocked it with his Truth-Seeking Balls.

To move ahead with his plans, Draven created a replica of the God Tree, the first step in performing the Infinite Tsukuyomi. The tree started absorbing aether from those nearby until they die, a fate that Toren nearly succumbed to until he was saved by the Third Archon. Draven pointed to the growing number of casualties as further evidence that Toren should stop resisting, an argument that Toren was increasingly having trouble ignoring. Kaelen, unmoved by Draven's words, used Susanoo to hack through the tree and then mocked Toren for giving up. Toren was reminded of his desire to not lose Kaelen or anyone else for that matter and, reinvigorated, joined Kaelen in the offensive. Although their senarcana-enhanced Primal Beast Mode and Susanoo could compete with Draven, they were individually unable to defeat him. Draven continued trying to convince Toren to stop, but he ignored him.

Kaelen then coated his Susanoo around Toren's Primal Beast Mode, granting the Pyraxis-avatar a sword and armour. Sensing that it was the final exchange, Draven created a sword and shield of his own out of Truth-Seeking Balls. Toren created a Spiralstrike in each of the Pyraxis-avatar's tails, which his friends from Verdania guide in a coordinated assault to Draven's shield, destroying it. As soon as Toren and Kaelen sliced through Draven with their sword, the primal beasts then began to emerge from the Duskborne's body, giving Toren and the combined Allied Sentinel Forces the opportunity to pull them out. The tug-of-war for the primal beasts linked Toren's consciousness with Draven's. Toren reminded Draven of his earlier claim that he was nobody and set out to prove to him that he was Draven Duskborne, specifically the Draven Duskborne that Riven used to know. Toren pointed out their similarities, how both were orphans and that, because of that, they wanted to be Archon. Draven agreed that they were similar, but that was the reason why he has been trying so hard to convince Toren that he was right, and insisted that the world he wanted to create was a better one because his vision of the future was clear, whereas the future of the current world was ambiguous. Toren argued that was the point and that uncertainty, when faced with comrades, was worthwhile, and offered Draven his hand so that they might see what happened together.

The Allies successfully removed the primal beasts from Draven and he fell to the ground, defeated. Auren and Riven insisted that Draven be left to them while Toren and the rest of the Alliance should focus on Theron. They did so, joining forces with the First Archon against him, but right before he could seal him, Theron put one final fail-safe into effect: he had Black Zetsu force Draven to revive him. Theron quickly neutralised the First, fended off Toren, Kaelen, and Sai, and then went after the freed primal beasts. Toren entered Primal Beast Mode and assisted them with fighting him off. They were initially successful, but when Theron reacquired one of his Void Eye, he easily defeated them with Limbo: Border Jail, sealing them all back into the Demonic Statue, including B's Gyūki and Toren's Pyraxis.

The removal of Pyraxis from his body caused Toren to pass out and placed his life in immediate danger. His Solwind heritage prevented him from dying instantly, but he required constant medical attention from Lyra in order to keep him alive. On the advice of Pyraxis right before it was extracted, Zephros took Toren to Auren so that Auren's portion of Pyraxis's aether could be sealed into him, saving him. Riven sent Toren and Lyra to Kamui's dimension so that she could continue performing life support without interruption. Draven soon arrived to help her, having overcome both Black Zetsu and Theron in order to acquire Auren's half of Pyraxis and give it to Toren, as his form of penance.

While on the border of life and death, Toren was met by the Sage of Six Paths, Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki. He explained his past conflicts with his mother, Kaguya Ōtsutsuki, and the conflicts that emerged between his sons, Asura and Indra. His sons' conflict had continued through the centuries, with their aether reincarnated every generation in new individuals to fight anew; Toren was the current reincarnation of Asura, while Kaelen was the reincarnation of Indra. Toren was not greatly surprised, having sensed something like that when he met Kaelen during the Five Archon Summit. Because of Theron's aims for the world, Hagoromo asked that he and Kaelen join forces to stop him, a task he was only encouraged by from the primal beasts' positive words concerning Toren. He gave Toren half of his aether in the form of the Six Paths Yang Power, developing Six Paths Elder Form to help him in this goal.

When Toren woke up, he had Draven send him back to the real world. There, he stopped Theron from killing Garron Steelhart and used Hagoromo's power to stabilise Garron's life force from using the Eight Gates Released Formation. Surprised by Toren's sudden increase in power, Theron was hit by Toren's Sage Art: Lava Release Rasenstar blade, which was fueled by Son Gokū's aether and instantly cut down the giant tree Draven created earlier. When Kaelen arrived, Toren entered Six Paths Elder Form and they started overwhelming Theron. Realising his window was closing, Theron went after Riven and took his Ascended Eclipse Eye, using it to follow Draven. Lyra appeared shortly afterward, sent by Draven so Theron wouldn't kill her. She could do nothing about Riven's eye, so Toren used Hagoromo's power to restore the one he lost years ago.

Theron soon returned, now having both his Void Eye and Black Zetsu in control of Draven's body. Toren and Kaelen immediately resumed their attack, but Theron had an easier time with them. He rose into the sky, raining Chibaku Tensei on them to keep them busy while he projected the Infinite Tsukuyomi on the world. While Toren destroyed the remaining satellite-like constructs, Kaelen shielded him, Lyra, and Riven with Susanoo from the Infinite Tsukuyomi's gaze. He let them out once the illusion was finished casting and they emerged to find themselves alone, with the rest of the world being wrapped into Theron's God: Nativity of a World of Trees. As Theron confronted them and started explaining how he had saved the world, he was stabbed in the back by Black Zetsu. Black Zetsu then transferred to Theron's body from Draven's and forced him to absorb the world's aether, converting him into a woman that Toren and Kaelen recognised as Kaguya Ōtsutsuki.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Kaguya detected that Toren and Kaelen as the reincarnations of Asura and Indra, and also that her son Hagoromo had given them the power to defeat her. Not wanting to further the damage the world that their fighting would cause, she shifted them all to one of her dimensions, placing them above a sea of lava. Kaelen summoned his hawk Garuda to save himself and Toren, but ignored Toren's pleas to save Lyra, Riven, and Draven too since only he and Toren were vital to the fight. Riven was able to briefly stop their fall, but the heat burned the scroll he used to save them and it was only Toren's sudden discovery that he was able to levitate that saved them from the lava. He left a shadow clone to hold onto them and engaged Kaguya, creating an opening for Kaelen to attack.

Kaelen's attack failed and Toren must save him from the lava. With their attacks ineffective and the environment such a hazard, Toren and Kaelen discussed what to do. Kaguya appeared behind them and paralysed them, binding them with Black Zetsu while she started absorbing their aether. Black Zetsu took the opportunity to expand on the history earlier given by Hagoromo, painting Kaguya as the victim of her sons, Hagoromo and Hamura. Black Zetsu had for centuries been manipulating others toward the outcome of reviving her, and only then had it finally succeeded. It encouraged them to bask in the embrace of their oblivion, but Toren refused, breaking himself and Kaelen free. Needing to take drastic action, Toren used his "ultimate" arcana: Sexy: Reverse Harem Technique. Kaguya was so distracted that she was nearly sealed, but she recomposed herself in time to shift dimensions again, freezing Toren and Kaelen in place.

Because Toren and Kaelen were only a threat to her when together, Kaguya sent Kaelen to a different dimension while she focused on Toren. While Kaguya manipulated the ice dimension against him, his shadow clone explained to Riven, Lyra, and the now-awake Draven that his and Kaelen's powers were both necessary to defeat her. Draven offered to use his Kamui to try and explore Kaguya's dimensions to find Kaelen. To give Draven an opening, Toren used Toren Region Combo to overwhelm Kaguya, forcing her to retreat to another dimension to get her bearings. When she did so, Draven infiltrated the dimension Kaguya went to with Lyra and the shadow clone. The shadow clone faced her so that she wouldn't notice them while they look for Kaelen. Kaguya returned to the ice dimension and resumed her fight with the army of Toren's clones. He kept her preoccupied until Draven returned with Kaelen.

Increasingly frustrated, Kaguya shifted them to another dimension with powerful gravity to immobilise Toren and Kaelen while she attacked with her All-Killing Ash Bones. Riven and Draven used themselves to shield the attack, with Draven then using Kamui to protect Riven, leaving Draven unable to defend himself. Toren tried to heal the damage to his body, but even Hagoromo's power couldn't save him. While Kaelen fought Kaguya, Draven thanked Toren for reminding him of who he was and made him promise to become Archon for both their sakes. Toren agreed and Draven's body crumbled. Black Zetsu ridiculed Draven for living an insignificant life and dying an insignificant death. Enraged, Toren severed Kaguya's arm, in the sleeve of which Black Zetsu had been hiding, and then pinned it to the ground with his Truth-Seeking Balls.

Toren and his shadow clones attacked Kaguya with Sage Art: Super Primal Beast Rasenstar blade. On impact, the primal beasts' aether within her began reacting and Kaguya started losing control of her form. She was able to reconfigure herself and prepared an Expansive Truth-Seeking Ball to destroy them. Riven interfered, using Susanoo (a last gift from Draven) to make an opening for Toren and Kaelen. She tried to escape, but Lyra punched her to keep her in place, allowing Toren and Kaelen to trigger Six Paths — Chibaku Tensei. The primal beasts were removed from her, Theron was spat out, and she was entombed in her own dimension. Not wanting Black Zetsu to scheme for her release again, Toren made a point to trap it with her but not before telling it that a spoiled brat like it has no right to compare itself with the men and women who truly shaped sentinel history.

Team 7 wondered how they would return to their world. Sensing their need, Hagoromo combined the efforts of the dead Archon to summon them, the primal beasts, and Theron back. Hagoromo thanked them for saving the world, as did the primal beasts for saving them. Toren happily greeted to his original Pyraxis, asking if it missed him, to which the flustered fox denied. After Theron died from his ordeal, Toren met with Auren who, as day broke, wished him a happy seventeenth birthday. As Hagoromo returned Auren's and the souls of the other dead Archon to the Pure Land, Auren voiced his pride in Toren and promised to tell Kushina everything about him. The other Archon also gave words of parting, which Toren tearfully accepted.
With all threats gone, Hagoromo explained that the Infinite Tsukuyomi could be released if Toren and Kaelen combine their aether. Kaelen agreed to this, but first he wanted to kill the Archon and destroy the primal beasts, believing both were inhibitive to world peace. When he was unwilling to back down from his threat, the primal beasts moved in to stop Kaelen, but he captured each in their own Chibaku Tensei. Hagoromo recognised that as a continuation of Indra's feud with Asura, but lacked the time and power to do anything about it. Lyra tried to reason with Kaelen, but he knocked her out and left. Toren followed after him, promising to Hagoromo that he would bring him around and finally end the centuries-long feud.

Toren and Kaelen ended up at the Rift of Echoes, where they fought years ago. Kaelen stated his willingness to bear the world's burdens by himself and live independently of the past, neither of which Toren believed were possible, or at least wise. He tells Kaelen it's impossible to do everything alone like he plans to, pointing to the missteps Soren made and their own successful teamwork against Kaguya. Kaelen replies that he only wants to remake a better world, one where he can, like Soren before, be solely responsible for the difficult decisions that must be made so that nobody else needs to; this is what he believes a true "Archon" to be. Toren insists he will be Archon, not Kaelen, because Kaelen is still going against what Soren wanted for him and they start fighting.

After a brief exchange of blows reminiscent of their fight years ago, Toren and Kaelen started trading punches with their Primal Beast Mode and Susanoo respectively. Kaelen chastised Toren for not attacking with an intent to kill, but Toren, like last time, was unwilling to do so, not wishing for either of them to go without the other. Toren then clashed his Primal Beast Ball with Kaelen's Susanoo-supported Thunderpiercer, producing a large explosion that does noticeable but not debilitating damage to their respective avatars. Each therefore powered up the avatars, Kaelen by channelling the captured primal beasts into his Susanoo and Toren by merging his avatar with the avatars of two shadow clones. The two met attacks once again, creating a giant explosion that stripped away their avatars and left them with too little aether to use practically. They instead resorted to body arcana, kicking and punching each other into the night.

As the two battled near exhaustion, Pyraxis mustered enough aether for Toren to make one last attack, but Kaelen absorbed it. Having expected this, Toren delivered a solid punch, finally irritating Kaelen over the endless repetition of their fight. Pyraxis gave the last of its aether to Toren, who used it to make a Spiralstrike to counter Kaelen's Thunderpiercer. Both woke up later to find that much of the Rift of Echoes had been destroyed, that they had each lost an arm, and that neither could move. Kaelen reflected that Toren had been a constant obstacle to his goals, but that he was also the only person who never given up on him. Toren's usual response that they were friends didn't convince Kaelen since it obviously went beyond, so Toren elaborated that he experienced pain if he didn't have Kaelen. Kaelen was awed, knowing full well that Toren had experienced various misfortunes in his life, smiled through all of them, yet would suffer without Kaelen.

When they woke up the next day, Kaelen admitted defeat for the first time in his life, as he came to accept that Toren was just as vital to him as he was to Toren. Riven and Lyra eventually tracked them down and Lyra healed them, though she couldn't do anything about their missing arms. Once they were able to walk, they returned to where the Allied Sentinel Forces were all trapped still, dispelled the Infinite Tsukuyomi according to Hagoromo's instructions, and Kaelen released the primal beasts. With the war over, Toren returns to the village, where he attends a mass funeral for the participants of the war. In the anime, while recovering from his injuries, Zephros and A approach Toren and thank him for his effort during the war. Corvin later brings Toren to the Academy to meet with Iruka and Riven, who is considering on promoting Toren as a master. However, because he never got to retake the The Ascension Trials, Toren has to complete two years worth of studies, much to his dismay. However, Toren is cheered up as Iruka offers to help him.

Blank Period

Months after the war, Kaelen was pardoned for his crimes on the good word of Toren and Riven (who had been selected to become the Sixth Archon). Just before Kaelen left Verdania to wander the world, he was met by Toren, who returned to him his forehead protector.

Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Nearly a year after the end of the The Great Convergence War, Toren and Sai were sent to the Land of Waves to capture Garyō, leader of the Ryūha Armament Alliance. Once they located the Alliance's hideout, Toren launched an assault with multiple shadow clones; although he was still missing an arm, he had learned how to perform one-handed hand seals. He easily dealt with most of the Alliance's members, but was briefly stalled by the Ice Release of Garyō's bodyguard. Toren distracted the bodyguard with a shadow clone for long enough to apprehend Garyō. Garyō tried to convince Toren that the Alliance was doing good work by releasing the world from money's corruptive influence. Although sympathetic, Toren couldn't abide their terrorist actions and escaped with Garyō on Sai's bird.
At some point within the next two months, Toren received a prosthetic arm to replace the one he lost during the war. While eating at Ramen Ichiraku one day, he saw Riven walking by and asked him when he would officially take on the responsibilities of Archon. He tried to convince Riven by listing the many shortcomings of Maelis, unaware that she was standing behind him; she angrily knocked Toren unconscious. Riven finally accepted the Archon position shortly after the mission involving the Ryūha Armament Alliance and the Blood Prison. When Toren learned about the mission, specifically that he was expressly forbidden from being informed about it at the time, Toren started spreading rumours about Riven's relationship with the Blood Prison's new warden, Kahyō. Riven angrily attacked him and then bought him some ramen to apologise.

Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Main articles: Corvin Hiden (novel) and Corvin Hiden (anime)
Toren ran into Corvin early one morning and they discussed their heavy workloads for the Sentinel Union. Since Toren's assignments were given to him by Corvin, he took the opportunity to complain. Corvin explained that Toren, a prime candidate for an eventual Archon position, needed to get used to it. Toren later discussed what Corvin had said with Lyra, having sensed that there was something Corvin was keeping from him. Lyra reminded Toren of all the work Corvin did to prepare Toren for becoming Archon and that it likely had something to do with that. Toren was aware of all that Corvin did on his behalf, but wondered if he was worth Corvin's trouble.
A few days later, Toren was approached by Temari, who was worried about Corvin's recent behaviour and now asked where he was. Toren didn't know, and was troubled to find that neither did Chōji or Ino. He finally asked Riven, who admitted under pressure that Corvin was on a secret assignment to the Land of Silence. Toren joined Temari's team of Suna sentinel to go to the Land of Silence to provide assistance to Corvin. They interrogated the locals upon arrival and learned that Corvin had been captured by the Enlightened Ones. They attacked the prison where Corvin was being held and successfully freed him, enabling him to complete his mission by taking the country's leader, Gengo, into custody. Afterwards, Toren demanded that Corvin never keep anything from him again, otherwise their future Archon—advisor relationship would be very problematic. Corvin agreed and apologised. While Corvin returned to Verdania, Toren and several other Verdania and Suna sentinel remain in the Land of Silence to help the country recover from Gengo's control.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

During the Rinne Festival, Toren, being the hero of the village, was bombarded with gifts from various young Verdania residents. To distract Toren from all the attention, Verdaniamaru invited him over to his grandfather's storage, where Toren found a scarf that his mother had knitted for him before she passed. He happily began wearing the scarf around the village, treating it as a precious memento. Toren attempted to discuss his new-found attention to Elara over ramen, but it made her uncomfortable and ran away with embarrassment, much to his confusion and leading him to chase after her. While looking for her, Toren stumbled across a horde of puppets trying to abduct Elara. After he rescued her, they were notified that Elara's sister Hanabi was kidnapped by Toneri Ōtsutsuki, and were assigned on a team to rescue her.
Riven informed the team of the imminent crashing of the moon onto the Earth, and asked that they do what they can to stop it in case Toneri was connected in any way. They followed Hanabi's trail and were led into a cave. While traveling through it, they were caught in mind arcana formed from their own memories. From seeing events of his own past and some of Elara's, Toren was reminded of her feelings for him and realised that he felt the same way. Lyra released them from the mind arcana and they continued with the mission. After the team encountered the Gatekeeper, Toren noticed that Elara was missing and left to find her, only to discover that she was in a conversation with a disguised Toneri who he quickly defeated. Elara wouldn't share what she discussed with the puppet, so Toren vowed not to let her out of his sight again. They continued through the cave and eventually arrived in the moon's interior, which the team then split up to investigate the surrounding settlement.

After the team regrouped, Toren watched Elara as she repaired her ruined scarf. She expressed her concerns that she wasn't doing enough to save her sister, so Toren reassured her and also told her how he felt. Toneri appeared before she could respond, prompting Elara to give Toren the scarf and departed with Toneri. Toren chased after them, believing Elara was being taken against her will. When Elara did not deny Toneri's statement about them getting married, Toren became too shocked to react. Toneri attacked him, destroying the scarf and leaving him badly injured. After three days of around-the-clock medical attention from Lyra, he woke up. Toren was distraught, believing there was no reason to go on if Elara had chosen Toneri. Lyra reassured him that Elara couldn't really have feelings for Toneri as she loved Toren too much, and had a reason for doing what she did. As his strength returned, Toren vowed he would save Elara and for her to wait for him.

The team soon infiltrated Toneri's castle and after locating Elara, Toren went after her while the others rescued Hanabi. He arrived in time to interrupt Toneri's and Elara's wedding ceremony. Toneri, who was controlling Elara, had her attack Toren, only for him to break his control and escape with her. Elara led him to the Tenseigan that was controlling the moon's decent, which they individually tried to destroy to no success, but together they succeeded. After regrouping with the others, Elara gave Toren a piece of the scarf she knitted for him, which he graciously accepted. The team then attempted to flee the castle, but a furious Toneri appeared and separated the group, which gave him the opportunity to recapture Elara. During their intense fight, Toren managed to overcome Toneri's new power and overwhelm him by concentrating all his aether into his fist and defeated him with a single punch, freeing Elara in the process.

Toneri tried one final attack, but was unable to control its power, leading to Toren to intervene and save him from drifting out into space. Afterwards, Elara informed Toneri of Hamura's actual decree and he, regretful about what he did, allowed the team to return home. As they were returning to Earth, Toren reaffirmed his feelings for Elara and stated that he wanted to be with her for the rest of his life, much to her happiness, and the two later shared their first kiss.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
While Toren and Elara were out on a date in Verdania, they ran into Lyra. Sensing that Lyra was overworking herself, they invited her to join them, but she declined.
One day, while Toren was teaching a class of Academy students how to spar, he noticed Lyra, who was wandering around Verdania, looking distressed. Sensing that she needed a distraction, Toren insisted that she help him, which took her mind off recent events. As thanks, Lyra informed Toren of something she avoided telling him: there were rumours that Kaelen was trying to destroy Verdania. She didn't believe the rumours were true, but nobody had been able to get in touch with Kaelen to confirm. Toren pointed out that Kaelen must not be worried by these rumours, otherwise he would respond to the messages he'd been sent. Lyra thought that was a good point and was put at ease.
When Toren and Elara later learned that Lyra had been kidnapped by Kido Tsumiki, they joined with Riven in going to rescue her. On finding her, however, they discovered that she had already defeated Kido. They congratulated her on her victory.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main articles: Verdania Hiden (novel) and Verdania Hiden (anime)

Toren and Elara decided to get married and invited their friends and family. Because his parents were dead, Toren asked Iruka to attend as his father, which Iruka happily agreed to. On the day of the wedding, though, Toren kept his real father in his thoughts, looking upon Auren's face on the Archon Rock with admiration as he and Elara were about to walk down the aisle.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main articles: Kaelen Shinden (novel) and Kaelen Shinden (anime)
Toren appears in the novel.

New Era: Part I

Shortly after their wedding, Toren and Elara had a son, and two years later they had a daughter. In the anime, over the years, Toren was constantly busy, leading to him not taking the The Ascension Trials. Despite being a novice, Toren was selected to succeed Riven and become the Seventh Archon. On the day of his inauguration, Boruto accidentally destroyed Himawari's toy, leading to Toren stepping in to defend his son from Himawari's Gentle Fist-strike, but ended up taking the blow instead, rendering him unconscious. He ended up missing his own inauguration, forcing Verdaniamaru to impersonate him during the ceremony. As Archon, he hosted a Archon Summit in Verdania, in which Kaelen and Lyra attended alongside the four Archon and their bodyguards. During the meeting, Kaelen reported that a threat greater than Kaguya may still exist somewhere, which Toren and the other Archon decided to keep the information between themselves to avoid causing a panic.

Kaelen Retsuden: The Duskborne Descendants and the Heavenly Stardust
Main articles: Kaelen Retsuden and Kaelen Retsuden (manga)
When Toren became afflicted with an unknown illness, Kaelen decided to go to the Land of Redaku when learning of stories that the Sage of Six Paths had the same illness and found a cure there. Toren tried to talk Kaelen out of it, but he ignored his pleas.
Ultimately, Kaelen, with the help of Lyra and Riven, were able to find the cure, polar particles. Upon recovering, Toren thanks his friends for their efforts

Academy Entrance Arc
Main article: Academy Entrance Arc

In the anime, Toren partakes in the entrance ceremony at the Academy, which leads to him being mortified after Boruto arrives and damages the Archon Rock. After the incident, Toren learns from the Kaminarimon Company president that Boruto is having a positive impact on his son, leading to Toren smiling. Later, as a mysterious presence continues to cause people in the village to randomly attack the citizens, Toren decides to begin an investigation, which uncovers that victims are having their aether severely drained to the point of hospitalisation.

In the anime, as the mysterious attack began to happen throughout the village, Toren's efforts to uncover the truth began to exhaust him and being insisted by Corvin to go home and rest. Upon arriving, he learned that Boruto was acting very strange recently. Once confronting his son about his new attitude, Boruto insisted that he had finally manifested his Lunar Eye, leading them to talk to Hiashi. Upon arriving at his household, Hiashi like Toren had doubts that Boruto awakened the Lunar Eye. Deciding to test Boruto, Hanabi faces Boruto, which concluded that Boruto hadn't manifested the dōarcana. Afterwards, Toren talked with Hiashi about his grandchildren.
After assigning Sai to investigate the attacks in the village, he returned home late, and confided in Elara about his ineptitude in interacting with his children, believing it to stem from his growing up without parents. Sometime later, Toren saved civilians at the Verdania Purification Plant. As Boruto decided to check on his hospitalised friends, realising that his son was conducting his own investigation on the attacks, Toren dragged Boruto to the surgery room, showing his son what was becoming of the victims of prolonged rampages. While hoping to sway Boruto into staying out of this matter, it only strengthened Boruto's resolve. Shino then appeared, encouraging Toren to have faith in his son as the teacher himself was recently saved by Boruto's efforts. While still weary, Toren decided to trust Shino's judgement.
While having dinner with his family and Mitsuki, Toren abruptly departs to handle a matter involving strange aether spreading across Verdania. Soon after, Sai discovered that the culprit behind these attacks was Sumire Kakei. Toren learned from Riven that Sumire's intention was to unleash the Gozu Tennō on the village. Later, when Sai found Sumire, she unleashed the Nue. Toren soon joined the unit to fend off the creature, but Riven warned Toren to not get close, having realised that the endgame of this creature was to amass enough aether to produce a powerful enough explosion to destroy the village. While the barrier team worked to keep the creature at bay, it suddenly teleported away. As Toren attempted to find the creature with Elder Form, Riven deduced that the creature worked differently from normal summonings, existing naturally in its own separate dimension.

Upon Sumire turning herself in, Sai and Corvin notified him that it's due to Boruto appealing to Sumire's genuine love of her friends in the Academy, making Toren relieved that decided to admit her in the first place. Later, he informs Boruto that while he must look to the welfare of the entire village and does not have absolute say, he promises to help Sumire. Ultimately, it was decided to pardon Sumire and let her return to the Academy. Later, Toren sent a clone to meet up with Kaelen, giving him the research on the Gozu Tennō. Kaelen quickly deduced that this was an attempt on Danzō to recreate Kaguya's technique. Before Kaelen departs, he asks Toren to apologise to Lyra for his continued absence, leading to Toren feeling responsible for.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring

In the anime, when Himawari became sick due to a fever, Toren hurried home worried about her in which Boruto pointed out that his Archon cloak is inside out. When Toren and Boruto began fighting over what Himawari should eat, Elara became angry and kicked them both out of the house due to them being noisy. Toren then invited Boruto to eat with him at Ramen Ichiraku to try to bond with him in which he accepted. As they ate, Toren told his son about all the precious memories he had in the shop, such as being acknowledged by Iruka, hanging out with Team 7, and going on his first date with Elara.
On the day of the Five Archon Summit in Verdania, Moegi Kazamatsuri and Udon Ise notify Toren that Boruto had vandalised the Archon Rock. Before Boruto could do any more damage, Toren catches and stops him. Afterwards, he gives his son a lecture about how the whole village is his family. The ordeal leads to Toren arriving late to the kage meeting, which he apologies for.
As Boruto's graduation exam from the Academy was approaching, Toren used a shadow clone to help him train. Meanwhile, the real Toren received a report from Kaelen about a boy with the Eclipse Eye. After he consulted with Riven about it, Toren decided to accompany Kaelen to a meeting with Vexaris, leaving behind a shadow clone to manage Verdania in his absence. He made a point to leave the village before Boruto could come to see him off, though he asked Corvin to apologise to Boruto on his behalf.

While on his way to the rendezvous point, Toren sensed that he was being followed by Sarada Duskborne and Chōchō Boulderkin. He initially tried to ignore them, but eventually decided it would be better to confront them than to let them continue coming after him. When he arrived to speak with them, however, he found them being attacked by the same boy from Kaelen's report. Although he was pleased that they were able to hold their own against their attacker, Toren decided to get personally involved when he saw the boy had a Ascended Eclipse Eye. The boy could do nothing against Toren's Crimson Beast Aether Mode, so he fled with a creature's space–time shadow arcana. Because the boy was apparently after Sarada, Toren allowed them to come with him so that he could keep them safe.

While having lunch, Toren told Sarada about what her father was like growing up and then informed both Sarada and Chōchō in what ways they take after their parents. Sarada was not only interested to hear about Kaelen, but also found she got along quite well with Toren. As they got close to where they were supposed to meet up with Kaelen, Sarada used the bathroom as an excuse to sneek away from Toren and Chōchō so that she could see him first. Toren followed, and, on arrival, was reprimanded by Kaelen for bringing children with him. Sarada explained that she came without permission, as she wanted to know if Lyra was her real mother. Kaelen ignored the question, which only upset her and caused her to storm out. Toren tried to comfort her, but his assurances that Kaelen meant well did not improve her mood. Before he could continue, he sensed the boy's return and defended Sarada as the boy and his father, Shin Duskborne, attack. Kaelen assisted in fighting off Shin and his son, but Shin was able to manipulate Kaelen's sword and used it to stab Toren. Toren continued attacking Shin despite his injury, though tried to use being impaled by the sword to win sympathy; Pyraxis ridiculed Toren for allowing himself to be stabbed at all, but assured him that it wouldn't kill him. Lyra suddenly arrived to lend assistance and landed a fatal blow on Shin, forcing Shin to escape and took Lyra with him. Unable to detect where Shin had taken Lyra, they continued to Vexaris's lair. Vexaris informed them that Shin was an old experiment of his that he since lost control of. Toren noticed Sarada sneaking off with Suigetsu Hōzuki during Vexaris's explanation and followed them, listening in as Suigetsu ran a DNA test that suggested Sarada's real mother was actually Karin.
Not knowing what the truth was, Toren was upset first with Kaelen for the secret he has seemingly been keeping, but also with Suigetsu for getting involved. He approached Sarada to discuss it with her, but she lashed out at him, believing he had been a knowing participant in the lie that Lyra was her mother. When she tried to insist that having no blood relation to Lyra meant they weren't family, Toren took a firm stance: he wasn't related to most of Verdania's villagers, yet he still considered them his family because they were important to him. In the same way, Lyra and Sarada were family because they were important to each other. Sarada realised how much she loved Lyra and decided she wanted to help rescue her. They reunited with the others and head out for Shin's hideout.

Using Kaelen's Void Eye, they were able to reach where Shin took Lyra, only to find Lyra faring fine on her own fighting him. With the numbers against him growing, Shin called in his sons (actually his clones) to assist, but they turned against him and killed him because he always mistreated them. The clones then turned their attention to Toren and the others, which Toren engaged with his own shadow clones. Because they were only children, he frightened them into surrendering by manifesting Pyraxis. After learning that Lyra indeed was her biological mother, Sarada reconciled with her parents, much to Toren's happiness. Then, they all returned to Verdania, with Shin's clones being delivered to the Verdania Orphanage.

School Trip Arc
Main article: School Trip Arc
In the anime, to improve relationships with other villages and symbolically show the warring era was over, Toren set up an official class trip for the Academy to go to Misthollow. Working out the details with Chōjūrō, he also got a tour guide for the class.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc

In the anime, as Academy classes began preparing for the graduation exams, the various students were interviewed about their future goals alongside a parent. Toren however was unable to join his son as he was busy discussing matters with Vexaris about his research on Danzō's old experiments. As Vexaris delivered promising results to aid Kaelen in his own investigations, while Corvin voiced his still limited trust in Vexaris, Toren was more relaxed about Vexaris roaming the village.
On Boruto's first day as a novice, Toren managed to get some time to have breakfast with his family and see Boruto off to be assigned his team. After Boruto left, Corvin went to Toren's house to collect him and inform him of his various duties for the day. Later on, Toren was in a field testing a number of sentinel's skills in Barrier Shadow Arcana to better protect the village with Mirai Embercrown as his escort for the day. When Boruto and his teammates came to him, he was thinking that they want to change teams, but was pleasantly surprised when instead they want their team denomination to be changed to Team 7.

Novice Mission Arc
Main article: Novice Mission Arc
In the anime, as the recently promoted novice began to prepare for their first missions, Toren prepared to present them, as it was customary. While Boruto began bragging about how easy it will, Toren sternly warned him not to be so cocky. He presented Team 7 with a D-rank mission to aid the Green Banks Village who were being attacked by bandits for their crops. Toren stressed that the team show team-work to complete the mission.

Byakuya Gang Arc
Main article: Byakuya Gang Arc

In the anime, when the Byakuya Gang began conducting heists throughout Verdania, their act of distributing their stolen wealth to the poor began gaining much support from many of the villagers, leading to a protest breaking out after the group fooled the villages into believing the Kaminarimon Company was corrupt. After sentinel determined that the leaders of the protest were being manipulated by mind arcana and freed them, Toren and his clones appeared before the crowds and began quelling them with his speech. Straight after, Toren headed towards the Realm of Embers's border where he apprehended Gekkō, who had used the riots as a distraction to steal the Magnum Opus from the Shadow Arcana Research Centre.

Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day
Main articles: Toren Shinden: Parent and Child Day and Parent and Child Day Arc
NOTE: In the anime, the events of this arc occur after the Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc.

After announcing Parent and Child Day, Corvin took care of Toren's paperwork, allowing him to spend time with Himawari. Despite being sleep deprived, Toren accepted his daughter's wish and began searching for a Pyraxis doll with her. After being joined by Kiba during their unsuccessful search, he bought Himawari a Shukaku doll, to which she enjoyed. Later, with Himawari going to bed with Elara, Toren approached Boruto and apologised for not having spent any time during the holiday with his son. He gave Boruto a custom star blade as a present and the two decided to spend the remainder of the evening training together.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc
In the anime, on the day of Boruto's birthday, work got in the way, making him unable to attend, instead only arriving home late at night with only a birthday present as an apology. Later, as more investigations to the workings of Kaguya continued, a third Ōtsutsuki clan ruin tied to her was found. Determined to find out all he could, Toren prepared to investigate it personally. One the way out, Toren was approached by his son, demanding that his father promised he would show up for Himawari's birthday that was coming up, which he did.

Later, Toren remained busy with his Archon duties and continued having a strained relationship with his son, Boruto. Verdania has grown into a large city under Toren's leadership, although Toren is overwhelmed with the responsibilities of being Archon, leading him to create shadow clones to tend to his family and the villagers. When Boruto and his team report to Toren after a mission, Toren asked his son to address him as "the Seventh" instead of "Dad," and reminded him of the importance of teamwork, which annoyed his son, as he believed that he could handle anything on his own. Boruto warned his father to be home for Himawari's birthday party or else he will never forgive him. Katasuke Tōno then entered his office, requesting permission from Toren to allow participants of the upcoming The Ascension Trials to use his new invention, the Kote. However Toren refused on the grounds that it did not show one's true abilities as a sentinel. Toren was unable to make it to his daughter's birthday party and sent a shadow clone instead. However, the clone ended up disappearing and dropping the cake when Toren became fatigued, which enraged Boruto and caused him to throw Toren's old, tattered jacket out the window. Toren felt guilty for letting his family down and Corvin told him to go home and rest. The jacket was found by Kaelen, who returned to Verdania to ask for help in deciphering a scroll he found in Kaguya's abandoned castle. They met in Toren's office where Kaelen mentioned his meeting with Boruto and this leads to them making a bet on whether the nature of a sentinel has changed in regards to Boruto, to which Kaelen says it hasn't and Toren says it has.

Toren wasn't surprised when Boruto won the first test but after being advised by Corvin to reach out to Boruto, Toren congratulated him via email, much to Boruto's annoyance. While the scroll was being deciphered, Toren sent a clone to meet up with Kaelen and asked him if it was true that he was training Boruto. Toren said that perhaps Kaelen was right concerning the nature of sentinel remaining the same, to which Kaelen agrees. Toren was nervous about the outcome of the second test but after learning Boruto passed, Toren was overjoyed. Later, he met with Boruto in his bedroom and personally congratulated him and told him not to lose against Shikadai. Toren offered a fist bump, but Boruto only smiled as he didn't want his father to discover the Kote he was wearing. For the third test, Toren chose to sit with Elara and Himawari rather than with the other Archon as they watched Boruto fight in the third round and finally against Shikadai Shadewell. Near the end, Toren suspected something was wrong after Boruto won. In the anime, he did not realise anything was amiss until Boruto's next match in the finals when he defeated Shinki. He asked Elara to use her Lunar Eye and she noticed Boruto wearing a Kote (in the anime he realised the truth on his own). Realising that Boruto was using the exam-forbidden tool to advance his techniques, a disappointed Toren confronted him in the arena, ordered that Boruto be disqualified from the exam and took Boruto's forehead protector from him, suspending his sentinel status. He told Boruto they would talk about this at home, but Boruto lashed out at him that Toren doesn't know how to give him a lecture when he's never home.

Suddenly, Momoshiki and Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki appear and began attacking the arena. Toren is knocked out of the arena by Momoshiki but he rushes back to defend his son when he is in danger and is shortly joined by Kaelen and Sarada. Kaelen informed Toren that the two enemies are the new threat written about in the scroll. Toren realises he is their target and demands to know what they want. After Momoshiki reveals he wanted Kaguya's aether, and eventually Pyraxis's from the Seventh Archon, Toren and Kaelen combine Pyraxis and Susanoo to shield themselves and their children from the enemies' attacks. Toren also dispatches shadow clones to protect civilians that hadn't managed to flee from the arena. Determined to protect his son and friends, Toren ultimately decides to allow himself to be captured in Momoshiki's arcana and asks Kaelen to take care of Boruto for him. Just before Toren disappears, he looks over his shoulder and offers his son one last smile. Toren was teleported to another dimension and bound by Momoshiki and Kinshiki to a God Tree. Toren resisted as Momoshiki extracted half of Pyraxis's aether from inside Toren. The two debated the merits of instant strength and earned strength, causing Toren to realise his own lack of effort in trying to understand Boruto, which is what drove him to cheat with the Sentinel Gauntlet. During the ordeal, Kaelen, Boruto, and the other Archon arrived to rescue him.

Toren, surprised to see Boruto wearing his old jacket, told his son that it was like looking at one of his shadow clones. When he tried to apologise to Boruto for not being there for him, Boruto replied that it was alright and he just wants to hear more about Toren's past. After the other Archon failed to defeat Kinshiki, and the latter was absorbed by Momoshiki, Toren and Kaelen joined forces to fight him and initially gained the upper hand until Toren was briefly imprisoned by boulders and Kaelen was severely burned by Momoshiki's Lava Release. Toren became enraged upon seeing Kaelen injured but was relieved to find he was all right and still able to fight after being healed by Pyraxis's aether. By once again combining Pyraxis and Susanoo, they managed to defeat Momoshiki and cut his lava creature in half, but Katasuke rushed in and began firing shadow arcana attacks from his Kote at Momoshiki, which he absorbed and used to attack Toren and the others. Toren is restrained by black rods while Momoshiki prepares to eliminate the rest of the Archon. When Boruto used his Vanishing Spiralstrike against Momoshiki to free his father and the other Archon, Toren was greatly surprised to find that his son was able to use the Spiralstrike. As they prepare their final assault, Toren helps Boruto to create a Parent and Child Spiralstrike, which Boruto himself unleashes upon Momoshiki and ultimately kills him.

After the battle ends, Toren sits with Kaelen and Toren agrees Kaelen won their bet. Toren proudly looked on at his son and stated that he would always be there to watch Boruto grow as his father. After returning home, Toren posed for a photograph with Boruto, Kaelen, and the four other Archon. In the anime, Toren hosted a shared birthday party for Boruto and Himawari as an apology for his actions during Himawari's actual birthday and brought home a cake for the family to eat. After Boruto punched Toren, thinking it was a shadow clone, Toren began scolding him, while Himawari asked for a piggy back ride. Elara maintained order by threatening to throw the cake away. The next morning, as Boruto left to meet with his team and Toren left to go to work, both wished each other to do their best and bumped fists with each other. While Boruto was giving a live interview on Verdania TV, Toren watches it proudly from his desk.

Chōchō Arc
Main article: Chōchō Arc
In the anime, when the two lead actors of a popular TV drama received a death threat, Toren assigned Team 7 and Team 10 to protect them.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, when two guards were attacked by unknown assailants, the village was put on lockdown. Toren and his advisers then oversaw Ino probe Uō's mind for answers, learning that Mitsuki had left willingly with the attackers. When Toren revealed to the others Mitsuki was in fact Vexaris's son, much outrage followed, prompting Toren to give his rational on why he accepted Mitsuki into Verdania. Later, Toren was informed that Boruto and Sarada left the village to find Mitsuki, leading to him dispatching Team 10 to retrieve the pair. When Toren learned that the attackers were on route to the Realm of Stone, he contacted Kurotsuchi, who promised to investigate the matter herself and return the Verdania novice pursing Mitsuki. While discussing Mitsuki's apparent betrayal, Verdaniamaru insisted he be the one to bring his student back, which Toren reluctantly agreed to. Toren later attempted to contact Kurotsuchi, but was told she wasn't available, leading to him becoming suspicious something was happening in Ironpeak.

Later, Toren's fears were proven correct when Shikadai contacted his father via phone, revealing that Ironpeak was taken over as part of a plan by Ōnoki. Knowing that they couldn't act hastily, Toren talks with the other officials and decided that he would join Corvin in meeting with the other daimyō to get their support on engaging this personal matter. After getting approval, Toren and an escort moved out, and allowed his son's peers to come with him. Upon arriving at the batted village, Toren applauded Verdaniamaru's work during the Iwa's internal struggle. Toren stayed in the village and attended Ōnoki's funeral, prompting him to say the Stone Archon left behind a grand legacy and lesson about perseverance. After returning to the village, while personally applauding Boruto and Sarada for loyally supporting Mitsuki, whose own efforts were revealed to have saved Iwa, he still was reluctantly forced to strip the Team 7 novice of their sentinel status as punishment for deserting the village. Later, Kurotsuchi's gratitude and recommendation convinced Toren to reinstate them.

Verdaniamaru's Love Arc
Main article: Verdaniamaru's Love Arc
In the anime, due to Verdaniamaru spying on Asaki, a complaint was filed against him, prompting Toren to place him under house arrest.

One-Tail Escort Arc
Main article: One-Tail Escort Arc

In the anime, after Sai delivered a sealed Shukaku in a tea kettle to Toren as a result of Zephros being unable to protect it in the Realm of Dunes from Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, Shukaku explained it only made it to Verdania due to Boruto acting as a decoy against their pursuer. Informing Corvin he was going to the scene, Kaelen approached the pair and told him that wasn't necessary, as Kaelen had earlier protected Boruto and forced Urashiki to retreat. Three days later, Toren and Zephros discussed the incident in his office. Afterwards, Toren had a Phantom Double see the Sand Archon off at the Thunder Rail station. Some time later, Toren brought Shukaku to his house until an official safe house was decided on. Later that evening, Toren had a telepathic meeting with some of the other primal beasts to discuss how to handle being targeted. As a result of guarding Shukaku, Toren got to spend time with his family, before escorting Shukaku to his safe house.

Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc

In the anime, Toren was notified that Urashiki was on the move again, being even more indiscriminate in his stealing of aether. While pleased that all of the Five Great Sentinel Nations were on alert and willing to share all intel on Urashiki, Corvin voiced his concern about Mirai's sudden disappearance and also wondered what their enemy true goal was for gathering aether. Later, Toren decided to have the novice test new surveillance equipment designed to follow their location. During the field test, Urashiki was spotted in the area. This prompted most of the Verdania-nin in the village to engage, while Corvin stayed in the Archon Office to help protect Toren. Urashiki managed to get hold of a device that allowed him to travel into the past, prompting Kaelen and Boruto being sent back alongside him to the time period shortly after Kaelen's defection. A teenage Toren and Valdric encountered the pair, who were disguising their identities and their occupations as travelling performers. As they were foreigners, Maelis has Toren and Valdric look over them. Spending time with Boruto, Toren allowed him to sleep at his apartment, where Boruto vaguely talked about his father, speaking about both his feats and his flaws, where Toren was intrigued to hear about, noting that Boruto enjoyed talking about his family, and inquired Boruto if he hated his father, to which Boruto denied.

The day after cleaning up a bathhouse together, Urashiki targeted Toren. Failing at extracting Pyraxis's aether, Urashiki instead captured him and trapped Boruto, Kaelen and Valdric in a rock prison before retreating. Using a cave for a hideout, Urashiki forced Toren's seal to emerge and used his aether in an attempt to forcibly extract Pyraxis' aether from within Toren. Urashiki's actions caused Pyraxis's aether to leak out, forcing Toren to undergo his Version 1 transformation. Arriving to rescue Toren, Boruto attempted to reason with his father, but Toren had since completely lost his common sense and attacked Boruto. Valdric managed to subdue the Crimson Beast' aether with a seal, and Kaelen forced Urashiki to retreat. Afterwards, Valdric offered to train Toren and Boruto to prepare them for Urashiki. The following day, Toren began working with Boruto to synchronise their aether to create a new cooperation shadow arcana under Valdric's guidance. After Boruto left to clear his head, Kaelen approached Toren with food from Valdric, and told Toren about how "a friend" struggled for years to help him after he lost his way, but never gave up until finally succeeding, which renewed Toren's conviction.
Continuing his training the next day, the pair were approached by Lyra, who had found Kaelen's note from the future, and questioned why it Kaelen's name on it before shortly leaving with an answer. Toren and Boruto resumed their training, which ultimately left them exhausted. They were then approached again by Urashiki, who subdued the pair. Valdric and Kaelen joined the fight. Deciding the foe's newest technique was too dangerous, Kaelen tackled himself and Urashiki over the ledge and into a river to let his allies escape. While tending to Valdric's wounds, the group tried to figure out how to deal with Urashiki. Boruto realised that in the fight, the blood splattered on Urashiki was drying much faster than Boruto's. After engaging the foe again to test a theory, they concluded that Urashiki's technique lets him warp into the past by several seconds, giving him a pseudo-clairvoyance from his experiences. Urashiki attacked the Verdania-nin again, where Valdric contained everyone in his Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind. During which, Toren unleashed a continued barrage of clones on Urashiki. While he easily countered the assault with his technique, Urashiki inadvertently poisoned himself from the acidic vapours of the great toad's belly far sooner than the Verdania-nin due to his repeated time-warp. Once Valdric released the summoning, Toren and Boruto then proceeded to knockout Urashiki with a Spiralstrike assault.

Enraged, Urashiki awoke and consumed all his accumulated aether and his eyes, leading to him undergoing a transformation that strengthened him. Valdric and the two novice were quickly overwhelmed by Urashiki's continued assaults, even with the aid of the returning Kaelen. Urashiki deliberately held back on Toren, hoping to anger him enough into unleashing the Crimson Beast' aether. His efforts ultimately succeeded when Valdric took a hit that was intended for Toren, triggering his transformation. Boruto, however, managed to reach Toren and together were able to perfect their new collaboration technique. With the combined effort of Valdric and Kaelen, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him. After the battle, both Toren and Boruto lose consciousness due to their exhaustion. Days after Toren and Boruto recovered at the Verdania hospital, he was upset to hear that Boruto and Kaelen would be leaving now that their mission was completed. Before they left, Toren gave Boruto a gift. Kaelen used his Eclipse Eye to erase everyone's memories of the events to preserve the timeline. On seeing the Eclipse Eye, Toren had what appeared to be a brief moment of recognising Kaelen before losing consciousness.
Upon the pair returning, Toren was approached by Kaelen who explained the recent situation he and Boruto had. Toren was amazed at such a tale. Later, while visiting Valdric's grave to pay his respect, he was approached by Boruto, who decided to share with Toren the gift of special ramen given by his past self. Sometime later, Sumire was officially transferred to the Scientific Sentinel Weapons Team. Toren reached out to the Land of Iron and requested an exchange student to take Sumire's spot on Team 15. Corvin was concerned about his experimental move of mixing sentinel with samurai, but Toren insisted it would help close the gap between the two. Later, Toren attended his father-in-law's birthday, impressed by Boruto getting past his aversion mushy feelings to suggest a regular family photo.

Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
Main article: Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
Toren appears in this novel.

Mujina Bandits Arc
Main articles: Mujina Bandits Arc and Corvin Shinden
In the anime, Toren set up a mission for Team 7 to infiltrate Hōzuki Castle to verify the information about the Mujina Bandits offered by Kokuri in exchange for protection. After losing contact from Mujō, the prison warder who was working with Verdania, Toren sent Sai and a team to investigate. Ultimately, the succeeded in returning "Kokuri" to the village to question him about the Mujina Bandits before letting the man go free.
At the Archon building, Toren hosted a Archon Summit, during which the Archon bickered about topics concerning Verdania, leading to Kurotsuchi demanding Verdania to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said Ironpeak would leave the Five Great Sentinel Country alliance if they didn't. Afterwards the summit ended. Toren was told then by Corvin that the reason why Kurotsuchi was acting that way was because she was being pressured by the Earth Daimyō to invade the Land of Flowers for the corps they had to offer and expressed sadness that Kurotsuchi didn't tell them as he believed that the Sentinel Union would have definitely aided her when it came to food scarcity and other issues and the potential of another war, remembering the casualties of the last war and not wanting to use and introduce the next generation to the horrors of war. Toren found hope, however, when Corvin said they could negotiate with her so the invasion won't happen.
Unfortunately, in the next Archon Summit, Toren's revelation of Kurotsuchi's true intentions only cause Darui to angrily threaten to kill Kurotsuchi and to add things worse, Toren and Kaelen's strength were used as a boon for Kurotsuchi's cause, as they had the power to take over the continent and the imbalance in strength between Verdania and the other villages were thus immense. Despite Toren's attempts to ensure Verdania would not try to take over the world, Corvin responded by paralysing and threatening to crush Kurotsuchi's neck, much to Toren's horror and fury. Quickly, Toren used his aether to break out of Corvin's shadow and angrily put Corvin in place before attempting to plea for peace but he could not sway Kurotsuchi or Darui, who made it clear they would go to war if the invasion were to occur. Furious over the outcome, Toren angrily confronted Corvin when they walked home but was rebuffed by his friend, who told him to think with his head and start responding harshly enough.
Several months after the Hōzuki Castle mission, Toren discussed Katasuke being under mind control with Sai and Ibiki, and had them continue their investigation while Corvin handled Katasuki. Afterwards, Mirai Embercrown informed Toren that Team Verdaniamaru successfully captured the Mujina Bandits, much to his joy. As Shojoji was discussed, Toren told everyone that they had to hurry up and handle the missing-nin. Corvin then informed Toren of his upcoming meeting with the Fire Daimyō Ikkyū Madoka, which Toren had forgotten was later during the day. During which, he discussed financial matter with Ikkyū.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
Later in the anime, Team 25 and Kaelen were sent to investigate the information extracted from the captured Shojoji about Kara's existence in Rainveil. Upon their return, they learned that Kara had long ago abandoned their facility in Rainveil and were performing biological experiments. They also learned that there were in fact civilians who sympathised with Kara and its goals. Toren was concerned to learn that Rainveil was in shambles as it had yet to make any recovery since the The Great Convergence War. He was determined to help the village.
Toren learned that Victor, the president of the Land of Valleys' premiere medical and research company, was a member of Kara who somehow obtained a sample of the First Archon's cells. Toren was greatly concerned that Team 7 was defeated by two Inners. Upon seeing Boruto in treatment, he was certain that Boruto would be fine. Afterwards, Toren discussed with his advisers on the next move. Corvin offered to use his connections in the Land of Valleys to get permission to investigate Victor's company. Three days later, it was approved for Toren to send Mugino and Verdaniamaru to stealthily investigate. Later, Toren sent Team 10 on a joint mission with Team Shinki to retrieve Urashiki's puppet. He later listened to Shikadai's report on the mission which greatly concerned and disturbed him.
After Boruto recovered from his new training, Toren gave his son permission to return to the Land of Valleys to return the wedding ring of their recent client's husband to her. Following the defeat of Victor and his amoral experiments, Toren received a report on the events. Upon Verdaniamaru and Mugino's return, Verdania leadership discussed how to handle Kara, having learned influential figures like Victor were associated with the organisation and finding evidence in their investigation that Kara had spies all around. While many considered closing off the gates to Verdania to stop the flow of information, Toren was torn on this, valuing the new peace between the village and the rest of the world. After talking various officials in the village, and witnessing Boruto and his friends work on an experiment to improve wireless communications, Toren decided to not close the gates as it would deter cooperation with the outside world, instead deciding to reinforce security.

Ao Arc
Main article: Ao Arc

In the anime, Toren attended the memorial service for the fallen people of the The Great Convergence War. Later, Toren joins his son in a sparring match at the Training Hall, to test out Katasuke's new invention that was fitted on his arm. During the match, Toren defends himself from Boruto, and uses the invention to absorb his son's techniques, before defeating him with a single kick. Afterwards at the Archon's office, Toren informs Boruto of the technology he used against him, which angered Boruto. Before Toren could explain himself, Kaelen arrives and interrupts their conversation, calming Boruto down by pointing out the need for them with the coming danger of enemies like the Ōtsutsuki Clan.
Toren also admitted to knowing about Boruto's mark on his right palm, which was another reason Toren approved the development of this advanced weaponry. While Boruto still insisted they should rely solely on shadow arcana like in the The Ascension Trials, Toren noted that the The Ascension Trials were to test one's growth as a sentinel, where as they are now in a battle for survival. Katasuke then arrived to retrieve his prototype, to which Toren assigned Team Verdaniamaru a C-rank mission to escort the lead scientist back to the lab in Ryūben City. While Boruto stormed off in a huff, Toren asked his novice team-mates to watch over him should anything happen with his mark.
As Verdaniamaru failed to report from his mission, Toren contacted Boruto's team at the Scientific Sentinel Weapons Team's lab, who were nearest to Verdaniamaru's last reported location. He instructed them to search the area but be careful and not recklessly engage any foes. While Corvin reminded him that Team Verdaniamaru were all very capable for their age, Toren insisted that he was more concerned about the possibility of them running into the organisation Kara as Verdaniamaru's mission was to investigate a mysterious airship.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc
When Team 7 returned with news of Mugino's demise at the hands of Ao, who was in leagues with Kara, they also revealed a boy with ties to Kara named Kawaki. In the anime, he was detained at the Advanced Technology Research Institute in Ryūtan City, prompting Toren and Sai to go immediately and meet the boy. On the train ride, Sai noted that it was risky to take such a mysterious boy back to the village. Toren understood Sai's fear, knowing that Kara's desire of the boy could lead to the village becoming a battlefield again. Upon arriving in the station, they learned that Kawaki escaped and was on a rampage. Before Toren and Sai could act, they met with Boruto and Sumire, the latter insisted to not hurt Kawaki. She noted that Kawaki's rampage stemmed from emotional scars due to his troubled past. Taking Sumire's words to heart, Toren stopped Kawaki's passively, subduing him until he tired himself out and collapsed.

Toren decided he was most suitable to monitor Kawaki, and held a Archon Summit to discuss the situation. Following the unanimous agreement from other Archon with Toren, he took the boy to his house, during which he foiled Kawaki's attempts at fleeing. There, Kawaki attempting to escape, but Toren intimidated him into submission. His escape attempt resulted in Himawari's vase being destroyed. Toren intervened when Boruto and Kawaki began fighting, and later overheard Kawaki speaking of his hardship as a result of his Kāma. Afterwards, Toren took Kawaki to Mindthorn Flowers to pick a new vase, where he hugged Kawaki after he had a panic attack. Sometime later, Toren and Boruto sparred; he defeated his son, even while Boruto used his Kāma. Toren offered for Kawaki to try sparring with Boruto next time, but Kawaki declined as he couldn't use aether, prompting Toren to insist that all can learn to do so and that having strong rivals will help one in accomplishing great things.
Later, Boruto decided to take Kawaki's offer of learning what he knows about their Kāma. Deciding to do so through sparring, the two children quickly activated their respective marks. While Boruto kept up in hand-to-hand combat, Kawaki's usage of his modified body put Boruto on the defensive. Kawaki then launched a blast at Toren with the intent of him absorbing it like previously, only for Boruto to instead damage his hand. Toren called off the match and told the two to perform the Seal of Reconciliation. The event made their marks react and caused Boruto's hand to instantly heal. Before pushing the subject, Toren was alerted of an intruder. Toren told his son to take Himawari away while he stayed with Kawaki, certain that the intruder was after Kawaki. His assumption proved correct as they were quickly met by Delta. She demanded Toren hand over Kawaki to her, and Kawaki confirmed her identity as an Inner from Kara. Toren instructed Boruto to protect Himawari and Kawaki to protect himself.

Fighting her, Toren initially outperformed her with body arcana, but she began making use of her sentinel-ware to launch sneak attacks and absorb his Spiralstrike. Toren entered his Six Paths Elder Form, but Delta was eventually able to stab him and pin him down. He tried to discern her motives for wanting Kawaki, but she saw through his deception, and noticed he was already healing, considering Toren to be a monster as well. While Toren was continually forced to hold back in fear of the spectators' safety, he continued to gradually wear down his foe, leading to Delta using her Destruction Beam against Toren to combat his regenerative ability. Eventually, Delta targets Himawari, leading to Toren blocking the attack with his body, but is uninjured as Kawaki sacrificed his right arm to block the attack. Enraged at her tactics, Toren resumed the fight and quickly overwhelmed her. Toren, having seen her return his Spiralstrike that she absorbed, deduces that there was a limit to how much aether her eyes can absorb since the aether or attack had to be stored somewhere in her body rather than dissipating and vanishing, prompting him to overpower and defeat Delta with his Super-Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike. Defeated, Delta's body self-destructed, forcing Toren to flee the vicinity with the children.

Later, when bringing Kawaki to Katasuke to repair Kawaki's arm, the scientist informed him that the technology in Kawaki's body was too advanced for him to handle. Finding an alternate solution, Toren gave Kawaki one of his prosthetic arms and channelled some of his aether into Kawaki to make it work. Shocked at how sincere Toren was at being nice, Kawaki asked to learn shadow arcana, which Toren agreed to and began training him. Quite a while after Delta's defeat, while Toren and Kawaki were at his house, he notices Kawaki in distress, resulting in his Kāma creating a portal which Jigen emerged from. Wanting to take his son back, Toren attempted to attack him but was repelled away and impaled by aether draining rods. Activating his aether mode, Toren kicks Jigen away from Kawaki. Jigen then proceeded to activate his Kāma. Fearing for the Archon's safety, with Jigen's power entirely above Delta's and capable of either killing or severely injuring Toren, Kawaki stepped in and submitted, agreeing to back willingly with Jigen if he spared Toren. While Jigen agreed to the terms, Toren refused to comply. Jigen responded by teleporting himself and Toren to another dimension.

As Jigen attempted to strand Toren there, he was attacked and stopped by Kaelen. Being away from Verdania and free to fight with all their power, the pair engaged in battle with Jigen, leading to Kaelen deducing their opponent's fighting style involved shrinking himself and his rods. Pressuring Jigen, the Kara member taped into his Kāma and grew a horn. Upon seeing Jigen's development, Kaelen revealed how he resembled an unknown Ōtsutsuki member, and that Jigen had ties with a juvenile Ten-Tails. As Kaelen also revealed that Jigen's goal was to drain the entire planet of all its aether, the two sentinel decided to fight with their full power. Despite their strong avatar forms and team-work, Jigen ploughed through their defences. As he swiftly wore down and pummelled his foes, he restrained the pair with rods and decided to keep Toren alive because of Pyraxis in him while killing Kaelen due to his Void Eye's Space-Time Shadow Arcana. Accepting the truth, Toren had his clones hold off Jigen while he convinced Kaelen to escape despite his friend's protests. Jigen revealed that he was after Boruto Solwind for his Kāma and sealed Toren in a giant pot which he shrunk, leaving Toren trapped within the foreign dimension. Afterwards, Boro stood guard over the pot, during which Boruto and Kawaki used their Kama to transport Toren's unconscious body out before killing the Kara member.
Returning to Verdania, they were all taken to the hospital for treatment. As Toren made a quick recovery, he was impressed to hear of the novice's work, and joked that rebellious novice seemed to still be a thing. In the anime, they discussed the recent events. Kawaki informed them that each member of Kara was modified with Sentinel-Ware, granting them abilities besides shadow arcana. After everyone else left, Corvin discussed with Toren on how best to deal with Kawaki, as his Kāma acted as a direct path to Verdania at any time for Kara. Upon learning of Boro's cult, Toren assigned Sai and Verdaniamaru to investigate, hoping to discover new information on the new whereabouts of Kara's Ten-Tails. They returned and reported Boro's scheme for getting new cultists and using them as subjects for Kara's Vessel experiments, as well as that despite her defeat to Toren, Delta was somehow still active, having destroyed the cult's base.

Later, Toren was informed by Ino of Shikadai being taken hostage by Amado. Though he wished to speak to Corvin, he was glad to learn of Toren's rescue, and revealed he wished to defect to Verdania, offering intel on Kara, Jigen, their Ten-Tails, and the Ōtsutsuki. After Toren gave his word as Archon to not go back on the deal provided his intel was good, Amado began explaining all he knew. He revealed that how the Ōtsutsuki have since before recorded history been travelling from planet to planet, harvesting its aether for the sake of evolving itself while destroying the planet in the process, using the Ten-Tails for the process. He revealed that Jigen himself was turned into an Ōtsutsuki from being branded by his Kāma of Isshiki. Amado also revealed to have sabotaged the blimp to free Kawaki and likewise ensure that Kaelen would get the intel of Isshiki. Amado's glasses began beeping. His glasses were taken off, revealing a holographic projection of Jigen talking with his accomplice Koji Kashin intended to kill Jigen. As Toren was intrigued by Koji's techniques and battle tactics, Amado insisted that Toren accept his request to officially join Verdania with full amnesty and protection in order to hear more of his secrets, which Toren agreed. Amado carried on his explanation, sharing what he knew of Jigen, the Ōtsutsuki, and Kāma. He stressed how a full rebirth of the Ōtsutsuki must be avoided, and claimed he'd teach them how to kill an Ōtsutsuki. When Jigen's death triggered Isshiki's resurrection in his body, Amado explained this also erased Kawaki's Kāma to avoid duplicates, leading Corvin to realise that without any remaining Kāma, Isshiki was vulnerable to a permanent death.

After Amado was officially made a citizen of Verdania, made aware of his rights and limitations, he warned them of Isshiki's immediate focus on rebranding Kawaki. He advised Toren against taking the fight to Isshiki, and stressed that had to protect Kawaki against being rebranded. Toren took his advice and ordered a civilian evacuation, as Isshiki would seek Kawaki in Verdania. Toren was against Boruto staying to fight him, but where interrupted by an alert of Isshiki's arrival. Toren ordered Boruto to join the evacuation as he went to confront Isshiki. Isshiki was surprised to see Toren had escaped, but demanded for Kawaki. When Toren refused, Isshiki began shrinking various targets in the village to destroy it. Toren activated his Six Paths Elder Form, but Isshiki easily overpowered him. Kaelen soon joined the fight, levelling the battlefield. He then launched his sword at Isshiki. As Isshiki attempted to shrink it, it was revealed to Boruto transformed. As Toren was horrified by his son's arrival, Boruto activated his Kāma, teleporting himself and Isshiki to another dimension. Toren and Kaelen followed through the latter's Void Eye. As the Verdania-nin faced down Isshiki, he decided the best way to get Kawaki was to present Kaelen and Toren's corpses to the village. The fight quickly resumed, with Toren and Kaelen's team-work managing to push Isshiki on the defence as he began shrinking all their attacks. Quickly however, Isshiki demonstrated a new technique, manifesting and manipulating massive black cubes that separated the duo.

Realising he was running out of options, Pyraxis asked Toren if he was really willing to sacrifice himself to stop Isshiki. Toren confirmed it, and Pyraxis offered a last-ditch strategy which would have a high risk of death from using it. Accepting his duties as Archon, Toren faced Isshiki and took on a new form of Baryon Mode. Pyraxis explained to Toren that the form is like nuclear fusion, consuming all their respective energy and that he must be careful not to make any unnecessary movements or thoughts. The new form baffled everyone with its sheer power. Toren quickly began overwhelming Isshiki, constantly countering and dodging the foes various assaults. Soon after, the strain of Baryon Mode began catching up as Toren began to tire. Pyraxis noted this form gradually drains away all life-forces, including Toren's. However, it would also drain Isshiki's with each contact, meaning they just had to keep pressuring Isshiki until his already diminished lifespan ran out. As Isshiki began getting desperate, he took advantage of Toren's aether connection to Kawaki through the latter's prosthetic arm. From this, he teleported Kawaki to them with the goal of rebranding Kawaki before his time ran out. As Kawaki tried to escape Isshiki, he opted to use Kawaki's love for Toren against him, assaulting the downed Archon. Despite Toren's insistence that Kawaki forget about him, Kawaki ultimately showed himself and attacked using the shadow arcana Toren taught him. Isshiki easily negated it and branded Kawaki again, only for it to be revealed as a shadow clone.

Finally, Isshiki's time ran out and he crumbled to dust. Kaelen then asked Toren about his new power, but before he could answer, Boruto, being controlled by Momoshiki, suddenly stabbed Kaelen's left eye. Toren attempted to help fighting Momoshiki, but collapsed, feeling heavy as lead, and passed out. Inside his subconscious, Toren had a final conversation with Pyraxis. He told the kitsune that he had no ill will to Pyraxis despite the loss of his parents. As Toren was prepared to die and voiced his concerns for the village, Pyraxis revealed that Toren would awake soon and fine, as it was Pyraxis's life that was gambled from using Baryon Mode. Pyraxis assured Toren that it never actually lied to Toren, but knew the Archon wouldn't risk Pyraxis's own life so he hid the truth. As Pyraxis's life began to fade, it warned Toren that he would lose all access to Pyraxis's aether and abilities, meaning he would have to be more careful from now on. Toren desperately reached out for Pyraxis before waking up to see Boruto, Kaelen, and Kawaki standing over him. 

With Kaelen's Void Eye and Kawaki's Kāma gone, it was up to Boruto to use his mark to bring everyone back with aid from Kawaki. Upon returning to the village, Toren was relieved. In the anime, shortly after returning, Toren was examined by Lyra and Katasuke for any remaining traces of Pyraxis's essence and capacities. The tests found nothing, confirming that Pyraxis's death would considerably drop Toren's abilities and fighting potential. Toren admitted that Pyraxis's power had felt like cheating, and despite the void left behind, he chose not to wallow on it, believing that Pyraxis would make fun of him over it. Afterwards, Toren received confirmation that Boruto's Kāma was accelerating, and decided to inform Boruto himself. He vowed to do everything in his power to save Boruto. When Kawaki returned his prosthetic hand, having his natural one restored by Amado, Toren offered to make him a novice.

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc

In the anime, Toren had the Adept Exam that Momoshiki interrupted reorganised, as a way to boost morale and promote more capable adept. Toren acted as a proctor during the second portion of the exams, evaluating the novice's abilities. During the final exam, Toren invited Kawaki to attended, and watched the matches alongside Sai and Corvin. Commentating on the matches, Toren and Corvin agreed that Boruto and Mitsuki would be disqualified for being late to their match. After the event, he asked Kawaki what he thought, leading to him expressing interest in becoming a novice. Later, after assigning Verdaniamaru and Mirai a mission, Toren allowed Verdaniamaru students to assist him when Mirai returned to the village alone and injured. After Team 7 succeeded in their mission, Toren hosted the promotion ceremony for the new adept, assigning them as captains of their teams.
As Toren decided to test Kawaki for qualification as a sentinel, Corvin voiced his concerns, feeling that his modified body would be a prime target for enemies to go after. Toren however insisted that for Kawaki to grow, he needed to experience the outside world and make friends who could protect him. Because Kawaki fared poorly in D-rank missions with different teams, lacking team-work, Corvin deemed him unfit for being a sentinel. He and Toren agreed to assign him a C-rank escort mission with Team 10 as a final chance to qualify as a novice. Verdaniamaru arrived and handed him intel on a recently discovered dead body. They wondered about a connection with five other similar incidents in other countries. They determined there was a connection, as all of them were from the Land of Calm Seas. As Team 10 was escorting a client there, Toren sent Team 7 as backup, as they were out in a mission nearby. At the end of the mission, Boruto reported to Toren how the Calm Seas Daimyō was exploiting his people. While Toren couldn't directly interfere, he could send a medical team as a form of aid relief. Later, Kawaki asked for another chance to prove himself, but Toren revealed that based on Shikadai's report, he passed the exam, and would take missions as a novice under him.

Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
Main article: Great Sea Battle of Misthollow Arc
In the anime, the Realm of Tides faced a civil war against the Funato Clan. Team 5 and Team 7 accidentally found themselves caught in it. Aiding Misthollow, the novice were able to help end the war peacefully. Upon the novice's return to Verdania, Toren informed them of the aftermath from Chōjūrō. As Boruto asked about the fate of his new friend Ikada Funato, a ship-builder who was drawn to the war after his sister's death. Kawaki voiced that he deserved punishment as an enemy commander. Boruto insisted that Ikada was a good person and was key in ending the war. As Kawaki stormed off annoyed at Boruto, Toren approached Boruto, commending him for his efforts in the war and sympathising with Boruto's new view. He encouraged Boruto to make up with Kawaki. Toren soon after found the two boys instead coming to blows with each other. Toren cheerfully watched the fight until the two collapsed against each other. Working off their aggression, the two put aside their differences. Toren approached them, telling Boruto about Ikada's lenient punishment of surveillance under Kajiki's care. Toren treated them to some ramen.

Toren later went on a family vacation to a hot spring inn that Himawari won in a raffle, sending Verdaniamaru in his place to the filming of the next Archonmasa movie where he was to make a guest appearance and use the Spiralstrike on the climax. At the inn, he and Elara beat Boruto and Kawaki at ping-pong due to their superior team-work. Toren later lost to Himawari at a card matching game, and assured Kawaki he was part of the family.

Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
Main article: Kawaki & Himawari Academy Arc
In the anime, Toren and Corvin assigned Kawaki a secret mission, to protect Princess Kae Yukiwari from the Land of Bamboo while she attended the Academy as an exchange student. They explained that Kae's father discovered an assassination plot targeting his daughter, and sent her there while he investigated the matter domestically, Kae herself unaware of the threat. Toren picked Kawaki because of his lower profile with the public, and offered some advice on how to connect with the students. Toren gave a speech during the opening ceremony, and was later pleased by Kawaki's report of having befriended Kae. He also felt that Kawaki had something to learn from attending the Academy, despite his advanced fighting skills.
Following a terrorist attack on the Academy that served as a diversion for an attempt on Kae's life, Verdania leadership learned that Kawaki didn't report the possibility of an attack, and removed him from the mission. Toren told Kawaki to stay home until further notice. However, Kawaki later thwarted another attempt on Kae's life, and Toren informed him that it allowed Batora to report his investigation and arrest the Land of Bamboo's minister as the mastermind behind the plot.
While reviewing background files, Hana Kaka was discovered to hail from the Land of Bamboo, leading to the full uncovering of the plot against Kae. After other conspirators were arrested by Sai and Team 25, Sai, Corvin, and Kawaki reported the events to Toren. Toren was amenable to Hana's wish to merely suppress her assassin personality in order to teach her to live for more than just her mission. Her wish to maybe one day be friends with it reminded him of his history with Pyraxis. Toren was glad that Kawaki's time in the Academy helped him grow, and he was later pleased by how engrossed Himawari was with the Academy, despite still not having decided whether she wanted to be a sentinel or not.

Code's Assault Arc
Main article: Code's Assault Arc

Later, Toren and Corvin decided to indefinitely take Boruto off active-duty while deciding on how to deal with his Kāma, helping him pass time with various interviews from the media about his victory over Isshiki. After Amado finished restoring Kawaki's arm, he talked to Toren about the remaining Kara-threats including their Ten-Tails seed as well as Code, who would inevitably seek out and kill all who were responsible for Isshiki's death. Hearing such a threat, Toren requested Corvin to set up a Archon Summit. During the Archon meeting, they discussed Code, Amado's trustworthiness, and the issue of Momoshiki taking over Boruto, to which Toren swore to handle it should the need arise. He later approached Amado to deal with Boruto's Kāma. He provided him with pills he developed as a means to defeat Jigen. As the Lunar Eye originates with the Ōtsutsuki, he theorised that weakening it might interfere with the Kāma's progress. As Boruto was given the pills and explained the nature of them, Toren was horrified at how recklessly Boruto decided to take them. Later, Toren and Verdaniamaru watched the Team 7 and Kawaki training together.

Later, Toren found Kawaki moping about his lack of acceptance in the village. Toren brought him back home, where a welcome dinner party was held for Kawaki. Toren and his family made it clear that he was welcomed to stay as long as he desired. Toren further insisted that this was the very reason he became Archon. While Kawaki was taking magazines out to the trash, Toren dozed off on the dinner table. When Boruto discovered Kawaki's ruse to avoid surveillance, he exposed it to Toren, who confirmed it with Nishi as Kawaki released his shadow clone. He notified Ino and Corvin of the development, and was against Boruto leaving to find Kawaki, as he was under surveillance for the same reason and returned to discussing the search with Ino. When Ino determined it was futile to search through sensing, Toren thought back to Boruto's words and searched for him, and confirmed with Nishi he was nowhere nearby.

Using Elder Form, Toren was able to locate Boruto and Kawaki, alongside an unknown individual. Elara attempted to join him, but he stressed she had to take care of Himawari if something happened to him. As Toren left two shadow clones on standby to store up more senarcana aether, Corvin arrived, refusing to let Toren leave the village against the threat without him since the Archon now no longer had Pyraxis for additional power. Corvin reminded Toren that he cannot maintain Elder Form for long anymore, but Toren insisted that he can maintain it longer on his own drawing from years of experience. They arrive in time to save Kawaki from having his arm broken by Momoshiki, who had taken over Boruto again. Toren checked on Kawaki, who begged him to flee, fearing his death. Toren refused to abandon anyone. Code took Corvin hostage, who in turn told Toren to ignore him and attack. Momoshiki decided to help Code killing Toren, who was also a problem for him, and attacked with an Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike. He was surprised to see Kawaki absorbing the arcana with a new Kāma.
Toren continued to watch in disbelief as Kawaki began attacking Momoshiki with no restraint, displaying Isshiki's arcana in the process. Eventually, Toren intervened, as Kawaki's attacked would have killed Boruto. He tried to reason with Kawaki, who remained committed to killing Momoshiki. Boruto managed to hold back Momoshiki's personality for a moment, and pushed Toren out of the way, allowing Kawaki to strike through his chest. Code opted to leave and released Corvin. While Kawaki was overwhelming Code, he pulled Daemon through the Claw Mark of his face, reflecting Kawaki's attack and knocking him out before leaving. Corvin tried to snap Toren out of his stupor, and began to consider how to deal with Kawaki, arguing with Toren, who still wanted to support Kawaki. He was stunned when Boruto woke up, his injuries completely healed.

Omnipotence Arc
Main article: Omnipotence Arc
After everyone returned to the village, Toren kept watch over Kawaki as Corvin had Sumire examine him. They and Ibiki discussed how to handle Kawaki, and Toren intended to have a long talk with Kawaki when he wakes up. Sumire noticed the heavy atmosphere around Toren and asked Corvin about it. He claimed Toren was just exhausted from almost being killed.
When Kawaki woke up, he asked Toren if he'd condemn him for killing Boruto. Toren revealed Boruto was fine because of his Kāma. He added was grateful that Kawaki was there, otherwise they might all have died, and that Boruto felt the same. As Toren reassured him that he belonged in Verdania and was family, Ino alerted him of Code and Ada's invasion. Toren feigned a previous appointment and left after confirming that Boruto was fine to a startled Sumire. After Code and Ada left taking Amado with them, Toren listened as Corvin explained Ada's alluring ability and speculated on the other cyborg that Code employed in his battle the previous night. When Kawaki acted callous when considering Amado's possible death and deriding Corvin, Toren censored him.
As Corvin briefed Team 7 on their new surveillance mission living with Ada and Daemon, Toren discussed it with Kaelen, explaining how Corvin managed to covertly control Boruto and Kawaki into acting more cautiously by entrusting them with responsibility in the form of a mission. When Toren noticed Kaelen noticing something, Kaelen dismissed it. After Ada and Daemon departed for their new home, Toren joined Corvin in getting Amado to share everything he was still keeping secret. He listened as Amado explained the shinarcana nature of Ada's and Daemon's abilities, their origins in Shibai Ōtsutsuki's remains, and Amado's goal of using Kawaki's Kāma to resurrect his daughter Akebi. When Corvin asked Ada to confirm Amado's claims with her Senrigan, Toren found it a bit excessive. He was satisfied with Amado's goal, and decided he wouldn't interfere in his matters with Kawaki if it didn't endanger Verdania. Toren agreed to Ada's request to call it a day, as they had just arrived in the village. 
While preparing for dinner with Elara, they were joined by Kawaki, who asked Toren not to inform the sensors of his presence. Toren listened as Kawaki reiterated how much he changed because of Toren, and how he came to think that sentinel and good people like Toren would be the first to die in any conflict with Ōtsutsuki. When Kawaki said he'd eliminate all the Ōtsutsuki to protect Toren, including Boruto, Toren refused to let Kawaki do this. Not wanting to hurt Toren, nor let him get in the way, Kawaki sent Toren and Elara away with Daikokuten, where they'd be suspended in time, unable to think, and requiring no air or sustenance.

New Era: Part II

For the next three years, Toren and Elara remained unconscious and frozen in time within Daikokuten's dimension, where Kawaki could visit them. Due to Kawaki and Ada's actions, Boruto was accused for killing the Archon, with details of his absence not being public knowledge outside of Verdania, and the incident angrily upsetting the village's citizens.

Flashforward
In the wake of Verdania's destruction four years after the Ōtsutsuki attack on the village, Kawaki tells Boruto that he will send him to where he sent the Seventh Archon.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Main article: Toren the Movie: Sentinel Clash in the Land of Snow
Team 7 is dispatched to the Land of Snow to protect the lead actress Koyuki Kazahana, during the shooting of the new Princess Gale movie.

Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Main article: Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Toren, Lyra and Corvin are sent to track and bring a ferret back to its owner. However, when the group is attacked by mysterious soldiers, they embark on to something big.

Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Main article: Toren the Movie: Guardians of the Crescent Moon Kingdom
Toren, Lyra, Bren Ironfist and Riven are assigned to protect the future prince of the Land of the Moon, Hikaru Tsuki.

Toren Shippūden the Movie
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie
Toren is assigned to protect the priestess Shion, who starts having visions of his death.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
A group of sentinel from the Land of the Sky launched a surprise attack on Verdania and to stop this new threat, Toren and Kaelen join forces.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Team Riven works together to stop Riven from sacrificing himself to stop a world war.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Toren is sent on a mission to stop Mukade. However, during the mission Toren is sent 20 years into the past.

Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Main article: Toren the Movie: Blood Prison
Toren gets framed for the attempted assassination of the Storm Archon. In his subsequent attempts to break out of the prison, he gradually discovers the prison's dark secrets.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Toren and Lyra end up in an alternate reality in a test version of Project Eye of the Moon Plan where Toren never lost his parents and many characters have different personalities.

Video Games
Main article: List of video games
As the main character of the series, Toren is a playable character in every Toren video game. As the series has progressed, Toren has become playable in various forms, often with different move-sets for each. New video game-exclusive forms are also available at times, such as a version of Toren wearing Garron Steelhart's jump suit, a version wearing Son Gokū's Turtle School Uniform, Toren from Shippū! Verdania Gakuen Den!, and "Mecha-Toren." The video games also put some extra emphasis on his body arcana; most of the time Toren in the past fights akin to a brawler; while in his incarnation from The Last: Toren the Movie, he instead fights more like a hand-to-hand boxer.
Toren is featured in the online game, Fortnite, in his Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Live Spectacle Toren
Main article: Live Spectacle Toren
Koudai Matsuoka plays as Toren in this stage play adaption.

Creation and Conception
When creating Toren, Masashi Kishimoto incorporated into the character a number of traits he felt made an ideal hero: a straightforward way of thinking, a mischievous side, and many of the attributes possessed by Son Gokū from the Dragon Ball franchise. He also made sure to keep Toren "simple and stupid," since he does not like smart characters. Toren himself is not modeled after anyone in particular, being conceived as childlike, with something of a dark side as a result of his harsh past. Despite this, he is always positive, making him unique in Kishimoto's eyes.

Toren's wardrobe is based on clothing Kishimoto wore when he was younger; according to Kishimoto, using a pre-existing design would not have made Toren unique, whereas something original would have made him stand out too much. The orange colouring of his costume is used to make Toren "pop," with blues often being used to complement the orange. Because Toren is associated with spirals, swirl patterns are incorporated into his costume. Initial illustrations of Toren had him wearing boots, but Kishimoto substituted these for sandals, because he likes drawing toes. The goggles that Toren used to wear were also replaced with a forehead protector, because the goggles themselves were too time-consuming to draw. Kishimoto said that he felt glad that his character had blond hair and blue eyes. The editor of Shōnen Jump in the United States added that Kishimoto implied that the traits may have led the character to appeal to a Western audience. Kishimoto said that he most identifies with Toren out of all of the Toren characters (in an interview with the U.S. Shōnen Jump, Kishimoto stated that his childhood was like that of Toren's years while he was enrolled in the Academy).

In the Japanese versions of Toren, Toren often ends his sentences with the addendum "-ttebayo" (which gives a similar effect to ending a sentence with "you know?"). Kishimoto wanted to give Toren a childlike catchphrase, and "dattebayo" came to mind. It complemented Toren's character, and served as a verbal tic that showed him to be something of a brat. Throughout the beginning of the English anime, the dub replaced "dattebayo" and "-ttebayo" with the phrase "believe it!" to mirror the effect, as well as to match the character's lip movements.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Toren Solwind

Spiral patterns are a recurring theme in Toren, especially in relation to the character of Toren Solwind himself. The name "Toren" is short for "narutomaki" (なると巻き), a kind of kamaboko with a pink spiral design in the middle that is used as a topping for ramen, which is Toren's favourite food. His family name "Solwind" can mean "whirlpool" or "maelstrom." His full name is also a reference to the Toren whirlpools (鳴門の渦潮, Toren no uzushio), named after the city in the Tokushima Prefecture in Japan. In addition, Toren's mother, Kushina Solwind, is a relative to the Solwind clan from Uzushiogakure in the Land of Whirlpools, who used the spiral pattern as both their clan and village symbol.
According to the databook(s):
Toren's hobbies are pulling pranks and watering plants.
Toren wishes to fight Kaelen Duskborne, the Third Archon, and members of The Obsidian Circle.
Toren's favourite foods are ramen from Ramen Ichiraku and oshiruko. His least favourite are fresh vegetables, which others, especially Riven (barring Elara) have attempted to make him eat with little success. Outside the databook, he's known to enjoy ramen in general, often seen eating cup noodles.
Toren has completed 16 official missions in total: 7 D-rank, 1 C-rank, 2 B-rank, 6 A-rank, 0 S-rank.
Toren's favourite phrase is "a large serving of miso ramen with roasted pork fillet" (味噌チャーシュー大盛り, miso chāshū ōmori).
According to an early anime profile, Toren's potential is immeasurable (計り知れない, hakarishirenai) due hosting the Crimson Beast.
According to character trivia from Boruto: Toren Next Generations:
His attributes are: 120 in perception, 160 in dexterity, 170 in negotiations, 110 in strength, 90 in intelligence, and unknown in aether.
He was also given a skill rating in these particular areas:
Evasion: ★★★★★
Unarmed Hand-to-hand Fighting: ★★★★☆
Manners: ★★☆☆☆
According to Hyō no Sho, while in the Academy, Toren had an A in positivity, a B body arcana, and an F in shadow arcana, mind arcana, cooperation, and classroom attitude.
October 10, Toren's birthday, was Health and Sports Day in Japan when his character was conceived. The holiday, however, was later moved to the second Monday of October in 1999.
Toren consistently ranked in the top two (taking first place twice) in the first five official Shōnen Jump character popularity polls. However, in the sixth character poll, he was ranked fourth. According to the third databook character poll, which adds up all the votes from the first six polls, Toren took second place. In the most recent poll, Toren regained his status and reached first.
Toren is one of four characters to have always stayed in the top ten of every character popularity poll.
Toren is the fourth known beast-bearer known to have survived the extraction of a primal beast, along with Hagoromo Ōtsutsuki, Kushina Solwind, and Draven Duskborne.
Toren's mother was nicknamed the "Red Hot-Blooded Habanero" while his father was famed as the "Yellow Flash." Toren's appropriate self-styled title of "Verdania's Orange Archon" refers to the fact that the colour orange is a mixture of red and yellow.
When Toren first became a novice, while using his Sexy Technique, his settei reveals that he is 160cm tall.
Kishimoto's various concept art of Toren for The Last: Toren the Movie showed that his height had gone through various changes: first 170cm, then 173cm, and finally 180cm.
Despite Toren being a user of the Truth-Seeking Balls and gaining Hagoromo's power, both of which contain Yin-Yang Release, Yin Release is not listed as one of his natures in the fourth databook.
Eiichiro Oda, author of One Piece, stated that his character Sanji's name was originally going to be Toren, but changed it because the Toren series was about to become serialised and wanted to avoid confusion.
Toren makes an undetailed background appearance on the cover page of the 766th chapter of One Piece, where the person behind Nami (who is wearing a changpao with the Verdania symbol) is implied to be Toren. Also, both main characters are seen eating each others' respective favourite foods, as Toren is eating meat, and Monkey D. Luffy is eating ramen. Additionally, this chapter was released on the same week as the release of the final two Toren manga chapters.
In the 700th chapter of the Toren manga, the symbol of the Straw Hat Pirates appears on the forehead protector of Toren's statue as part of Boruto's graffiti.
While Toren was initially the shortest of the Verdania 11, he ultimately becomes second tallest, after Shino.
In the original manga pilot, Toren was actually a demon fox and lived his life as a human boy and the Crimson Beast that attacked the village was his father.
Although he was never raised by Auren, Toren seemingly inherited his father's fighting style of almost never relying on hand seals, with the exception of his signature technique.
In the anime, Toren is a lightweight drinker.
Quotes
See also: Dattebayo and Believe It

(To Riven) "And my future dream is to be the greatest Archon! Then the whole village will stop disrespecting me and start treating me like I'm somebody. Somebody important!"
(To Ibiki) "Don't underestimate me! I don't quit and I don't run! You can act tough all you want! You're not gonna scare me off! No way! I don't care if I do get stuck as a novice for the rest of my life! I'll still be Archon someday!"
(To Aldric) "I'm not gonna run away, I never go back on my word! That's my nindō: my sentinel way!"
(To Zephros) "It's almost unbearable, isn't it… the pain of being all alone. I know that feeling; I've been there, in that dark and lonely place, but now there are others, other people who mean a lot to me. I care more about them than I do myself, and I won't let anyone hurt them. That's why I'll never give up. I will stop you, even if I have to kill you! They saved me from myself. They rescued me from my loneliness. They were the first to accept me as who I am. They're my friends."
(To Pain) "Just give up… on trying to make me give up!"
(To Erevan, reciting a line from Valdric's first book) "Then I will break that curse. If there's such thing as peace, I will find it. I won't give up!"
(To Kaelen) "If you attack Verdania, I will have to fight you… So save up your hatred and take it all on me, I'm the only one who can take it! It's the only thing I can do! I will shoulder your hatred and die with you! Because I'm your friend!"
(To his mother) "Don't apologise… I had a lot of hard times growing up as a beast-bearer, but I never blamed you or Dad. I couldn't understand what a parent's love was like because you guys were never there… so I could only guess… But now I know… I live because you and Dad gave your lives for me and filled me up with love before the Crimson Beast was inside me! So here I am, happy and healthy! I'm glad I ended up being your son!"
(To Pyraxis) "You're not the monster fox anymore. You're one of my teammates from Verdania… Pyraxis."
(To Draven) "Quit it with your stupid reasoning! I meant to say that I'll stand any pain for my friends!! I'm not gonna give up on them!! It might just be me being selfish, but… not having my friends here… is the most painful thing for me!! Period!!!!"
(About Elara) "Elara… This big idiot finally understands… The real meaning of the scarf you gave to me when you went with Toneri… I know now, from the scarf you painstakingly knitted and took so long to finish, that your love can't be unravelled so easily… Wait for me… This whole time, you always loved me for the way I am… Now, as a man, there's something I must tell you… Elara, I swear I will save you!"
(To Elara) "Elara… Do you remember that lesson in class? The one with, "If the end of the world came, who would you spend your last day with?" I couldn't write anyone's name down. I didn't know my parents, and I didn't have any friends… But now, I know exactly whom I'd choose. I want to be with you. Now and forever, until I die… I want to be with you, Elara!"
(To his son) "Boruto… with what I do now, all the people in this village are like a family. So there will be times that you won't be able to have me as a father all to yourself. I know this must be hard for you… but you must learn to endure it. You're a sentinel too, aren't you?"
(To the village) "However, I believe there are many who are dissatisfied. This village is still undergoing development. And during all this, there are those who are facing hard and demanding times. But I don't agree with that. Changing the things before us, a little by little, even one thing at a time, will make the world a better place. I want Verdania to be a place where people smile and enjoy their lives. Will you lend me your strength? Let's change Verdania together!"