Valdric (自来也) was one of Verdania's The Three Legends. Famed as a hermit and pervert of stupendous sentinel skill, Valdric travelled the world in search of knowledge that would help his friends, the various novels he wrote, and, posthumously, the world in its entirety – knowledge that would be passed on to his godson and final student, Toren Solwind.

Background

After he graduated from Verdania's Sentinel Academy, Valdric was teamed with Vexaris and Maelis under the leadership of Hiruzen Embercrown, who he developed his sentinel skills during his novice years. Hiruzen gave them a bell test for the team's first exercise, during which Valdric repeatedly fell for Hiruzen's tricks, and for failing to acquire a bell, he was tied to a stump as punishment. Hiruzen encouraged Valdric to be more like Vexaris, but Valdric countered that his Transparent Escape Technique was a fair testament to his skills, as he could spy on bathing women without getting caught: Hiruzen offered to accompany him to see if this was true. Valdric had a certain interest in Maelis from their first meeting, and when her breasts developed, she became a frequent target of his peepings. She nearly killed him when she caught him on one occasion, forcing him to be more discreet about his interests.

Valdric at some point discovered Toadcrest Summit, the residence of the toads; in the anime, he was brought there when he tried to summon a toad without first having a contract with them. Fukasaku trained Valdric in their ways, most prominently senarcana. While he was at Toadcrest Summit, the Great Toad Sage made a prediction about Valdric: that he would travel the world and during that time meet the Child of the Prophecy, a student who would grow up to either save or destroy the world depending upon how Valdric taught them.
At some point Valdric was made a master and led his novice students in Team 6. He started to suspect that one of them, Auren Solwind, might be the Child of the Prophecy because of his natural genius. As such, he took Auren as his disciple and taught him many of his skills; Valdric also contributed to Auren's development of the Spiralstrike.

Although their team under Hiruzen's leadership had disbanded, Valdric, Vexaris, and Maelis continued fighting together during the Second Sentinel World War. During one such fight in Rainveil, they were the only three to survive an encounter with Hanzō, for which accomplishment Hanzō dubbed them Verdania's "Legendary The Three Legends". After the battle, three war orphans approached them and asked to be taught shadow arcana. Valdric, guilty for his involvement in the war, decided to stay in Ame for a time in order to look after them. Shortly after he joined them, he discovered that one of the orphans, Erevan, possessed the Void Eye, once used by the Sage of the Six Paths to save the world. Valdric decided that Erevan was the Child of the Prophecy, and as such agreed to teach the orphans shadow arcana so that he might guide Erevan towards the world's salvation.

Erevan was a kind child, torn between his desire to not hurt others and his wish to protect Yahiko and Konan. Valdric comforted Erevan that it was enough to want to protect people one holds to be important, as the world is plagued with seemingly endless conflict. Erevan decided that it was possible to end the constant bloodshed and, though he didn't know how, that he would someday find the path to peace. Valdric was inspired by Erevan's words and started writing what would become The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Sentinel. After three years of training the orphans, Valdric decided they were ready to forge out on their own and he returned to Verdania; he left them a finished copy of Gutsy Sentinel, dedicated to Erevan. News of the orphans' deeds would reach him from time to time, but eventually he heard that they'd all died.
Eventually, Valdric published his first novel, The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Sentinel. However, it did not sell well when released. Valdric found his writing style when he created the adult novels called Icha Icha. The novels were based on his personal experiences in love - particularly his rejections by Maelis - retold in a comical way. The books were wildly popular, giving his chequebook a balance that is "filled with zeroes". Auren - selected as Verdania's Fourth Archon after Valdric refused the position - enjoyed Valdric's first book, finding the main character very much like Valdric. He decided to name his and Kushina Solwind's then-unborn son "Toren" after the main character, hoping that their Toren would be just as determined as the character (and thus its author). Valdric tried to convince them not to since that would make him Toren's godfather, but Auren and Kushina insisted this was a good thing. Auren died during the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack, giving his life to seal the Crimson Beast into the newborn Toren; as one of his last acts, Auren sent Valdric Gerotora, on whose stomach he wrote the key to Toren's seal. Valdric guessed that Auren wanted him to help Toren gain control of the Crimson Beast' power, though he couldn't guess what that power would be needed for.
Although Vexaris had always been his better, someone that Hiruzen pointed to as an example for Valdric to live up to, Valdric considered Vexaris to be one of his closest friends. For this reason, when Vexaris eventually defected from Verdania, Valdric pursued him and tried to convince him to return. Vexaris refused and attacked Valdric in order to secure his escape. For a time, Valdric tried to find a deeper meaning in Vexaris's betrayal, something that, if changed, would bring Vexaris back. He could ultimately come up with nothing. Vexaris accused Valdric of being unable to understand him as his parents weren't killed. From that point onward, Valdric started following Vexaris's movements as well as those of The Obsidian Circle, an organisation which Vexaris eventually joined. His investigations often took him away from the village, preventing Valdric from becoming Fifth Archon like Hiruzen wanted him to.
In the anime, one night, Valdric entered the Nadeshiko Village to do his "research" for his next novel only to be pursued by the village leader who challenged him to a duel for his hand in marriage. As the match dragged on into the next day, Valdric called for the match to be postponed, as neither party was making headway against the other, to which the village leader grudgingly agreed. Valdric promised that their students instead should one day seek each other out and fight if the two never met again.

Personality

Valdric was generally light-hearted and gregarious, making jokes at his own expense and giving a mirthful laugh about it afterwards. In his interactions with others, he liked to pretend to be smug or selfish, upsetting them so that he could further rile them up with his humour. Even when entering combat he did not miss an opportunity to be flashy and over-the-top, striking kabuki poses and giving dramatic self-introductions; these intros were often interrupted in some way, and Valdric was quick to express his annoyance at whoever was responsible. Friends and foes alike were fond of Valdric for his eccentricities, admiring that somebody so seemingly irreverent could in actuality be an extremely competent sentinel: he was deeply loyal to Verdania despite how often he is away from it, not hesitating to threaten to kill Maelis if she betrayed the village, despite their long history. Valdric also demonstrated no hesitation in attempting to destroy his former best friend Vexaris in retribution for the death of their teacher, nor in attempting to dispatch his former pupil Erevan when he learned Erevan was the true leader of The Obsidian Circle, despite the pain it brought him. Valdric felt that his personality quirks render him incapable of being Archon, as he either lacked the responsibility for the position or he had, through his past infractions and failures, proven unworthy of such an honour.
Despite being seen as an eccentric troublemaker in his youth, Valdric proved to be an exemplary and competent Sentinel. Valdric would establish a vast information network across the countries and in battle demonstrated the ability to both recognise and analyse threats and danger on short notice. Valdric was also capable of coming up with quick gambits and new strategies in the middle of battle based on his keen observations. His unrestrained conduct in battle earned him his moniker of "The Village's Madness".
Valdric was a self-proclaimed super-pervert with no equal. His favourite hobby was spying on women while they bathe, a passion he flaunted openly and in fact took pride in because of how infrequently he was caught. Despite this, Valdric disliked it when Toren Solwind referred to him as the "Perverted Hermit" (エロ仙人, Ero-sennin, English TV: Pervy Sage) in front of others. With the "research" from his peeping, he would use it as inspiration for his novels. Despite his high-success as a novelist, this fact did not stop him from taking Toren's money when he got the chance and spending it on alcohol and women. In the anime, Toren ghost-writes an Icha Icha book without anybody noticing, suggesting that either Toren can write like an adult, or that Valdric's writing abilities were no better than a child's. Maelis suspected it was the latter, as she notes that a report Valdric wrote when he was younger was poorly written and accompanied by crude crayon illustrations.

Valdric's perversion has backfired on him a number of times. When he first meets Toren, he has no interest in training him. Toren convinces him to change his mind by using the Sexy Technique, which Valdric so strongly approves of that he asks Toren to continue to use it for the duration of their training. Soren Duskborne and Kisame of The Obsidian Circle later hypnotise an attractive woman to lure Valdric away from Toren so that they can try to capture him; though it works at first, Valdric quickly realises that women aren't usually attracted to him, allowing him to return to Toren in time to rescue him. When he was younger, he spied on Maelis while she was bathing and, when she caught him, she broke both of his arms, six of his ribs, and ruptured a number of organs as punishment. Ever since, he's used greater discretion in expressing his interests in Maelis, careful to make his advances come off only as playful. Valdric considers his inability to win Maelis's heart to be one of the greatest failures of his life. Despite his boisterous nature, Valdric was plagued by doubts and insecurities that his life was nothing more than a series of failures. Being unable to save Vexaris weighed heavily on him, as did the deaths of his sensei the Third Archon, and his student the Fourth Archon. Valdric considered his achievements paltry things next to the previous four Archon and desired a death as glorious as their own. In his final moments, Valdric expressed his pride in realising a heroic death that was "just barely glorious, but glorious indeed".
Despite his self-deprecation, one of Valdric's defining feature was his indomitable spirit and drive to never give up. Despite the multitude of failures he suffered in life, he never succumbed to despair, always forging ahead as he felt a sentinel must. Against Vexaris, Valdric revealed his belief that the truest essence of the sentinel was one who endured and fought on no matter what they faced, regardless of inborn talent or genius. Even mortally wounded, Valdric's willpower was so powerful that he willed his own heart to begin beating again in order to impart a final message to Verdania and more importantly Toren. He would pass these beliefs and drive on to his pupils. 
Perhaps Valdric's greatest contribution to the world was his abilities as a teacher, something even he felt he failed in. Driven by the prophecy he would one day find the world's saviour, Valdric would mentor three of the most powerful sentinel in history, Erevan, Auren and Toren, imparting his belief in the spirit of a sentinel to all three. While he could be harsh and distant to Toren at first, Valdric held a genuine love for the boy and took time to make certain he acted like a parental figure as opposed to merely teacher and student, even buying ice cream to share with him when Toren was depressed at his lack of a family. Even in death, Valdric's last thoughts were of Toren, who he entrusted the world's salvation to. In the anime, before departing for the afterlife, Valdric's spirit would use its final moments to clap Toren on the shoulder in a final show of affection.
While he rarely revealed it outwardly, Valdric was a great believer in peace and held a deep longing to change the hatred inherent in the world. While he desired to find an answer to the cycle of hatred that plagued the world, he was never been able to come up with a way to do so. He never had children of his own, for which reason he thought of Auren Solwind as his son and, by extension, thought of Toren as his grandson. Valdric stated simply that to be happy was not his fate; Maelis doubted he believed his own words. Under his bluster, Valdric remained a fundamentally kind man who treasured those close to him, maintaining a strong faith in the next generation, especially those he personally trained and Toren in particular, believing that Toren would be able to create and enjoy the world that Valdric could only dream of. When he died, Valdric decided that, despite his numerous failures, the successes of his time with Toren made everything worthwhile.

Appearance

Valdric was a tall and well-built man in adulthood with fair skin. He had waist-length, spiky white hair that he usually ties back into a pony tail, with two shoulder-length bangs framing his face. There were red lines under his eyes which extended further down his face as he got older, going all the way to the bottom by the time he was an adult. By the time he was middle-aged, he developed wrinkles around the corners of his mouth and a wart (possibly a piercing in the manga) on the left side of his nose. Following an encounter with Toren's Version 2 form, he received a large scar that permanently remained in the centre of his chest. His usual attire consisted of a green short shirt kimono and matching pants, under which he wore mesh armour that is visible at his wrists and ankles. He also wore hand guards, a black belt, traditional Japanese wooden sandals, and a red haori with two yellow circles on each side. He often carried a large scroll on his back, and had a tattoo on his left palm, and he wore a horned forehead protector with the kanji for "oil" (油, abura), which denoted his affiliation with Toadcrest Summit.

Abilities

Valdric was an exceptionally powerful sentinel, hailed as one of the greatest sentinel of his generation and that Verdania ever produced. His true recognition came during the Second Sentinel World War when proved able to compete against Hanzō and his giant salamander Ibuse, and was dubbed a The Three Legends alongside Vexaris and Maelis. Valdric's strength and fame were such that renowned groups like the Duskborne Clan and Seven Sentinel Swordsmen of the Mist would hesitate to confront him in direct combat. Kisame Hoshigaki and Soren Duskborne both admitted that together, even with assistance, they would at best reach a stalemate. He was offered to become Archon three times, and would have been offered a fourth one had he lived longer. Riven, also among the most powerful sentinel Verdania ever produced, found the idea of Valdric being single-handedly defeated absurd. In truth, the assumed The Obsidian Circle leader Erevan openly admitted that he would have lost if Valdric had prior knowledge of the Six Paths of Pain, which Tobi felt is a major testament to the The Three Legends's abilities. Upon death, he became one of the individuals Morden Glasswick most wanted to reincarnate for war. Decades later, Valdric's might was still revered as a clone was made of him.

Aether and Physical Prowess
Valdric had aether reserves large enough to summon Gamabunta and aether potent enough to use senarcana. He was masterful with his aether control, able to perform a Spiralstrike in both hands at the same time, or even carve messages with his aether despite it being disrupted. He also was knowledgeable enough of mind arcana to teach others how to break free from it. His raw might is also considerable, able to fling Toren several metres with a single finger tap. In the anime, he was shown lifting and throwing large boulders, as well as kicking away some of the Giant Multi-Headed Dogs.
Valdric was also remarkably resilient, able to withstand a lot of damage before going down. He could survive a full on kick from Garron Steelhart with barely a scratch, and even attacks from summons as big as Gamabunta. Due to this resilience, he had only been brought to the brink of death twice: against Toren Solwind's Four-Tailed Form and Maelis's monster strength. Even Erevan had a difficult time inflicting lethal damage on his old master using the Six Paths of Pain.

Shadow Arcana

Valdric was a shadow arcana master, that was feared across many different sentinel nations ever since the Second Sentinel World War. He was famed as the "Toad Sage" (蝦蟇仙人, Gama Sennin) because of his affiliation with the toads of Toadcrest Summit. This affiliation was most commonly displayed through the Conjuration Rite which Valdric was extremely proficient at. He could summon toads, either to fight alongside him in battle or simply summoning a special toad's œsophagus to cover an area and restrict the movements of his enemies, it's considered nearly impossible to escape and over time the toad's œsophagus will contract around and digest its victims. Other toad-based skills include spitting oil from his mouth, hiding himself within a target's shadow to control their actions undetected, and using toads to infiltrate sensitive areas. 
Apart from his toad-based techniques, he was equally skilled in a variety of other styles. He could grow and manipulate his hair, either to bind and destroy targets or to surround him as a defence, injuring any who comes into contact with him. He was also able to use the Spiralstrike — a destructive ball of compressed aether — as well as its improved version, the Big Ball Spiralstrike. His prowess with the Spiralstrike was shown to be comparable to the creator, Auren.

Valdric was highly skilled at fūinarcana, able to deduce the workings of Toren's Eight Trigrams Sealing Style within moments of seeing the seal's design. He also quickly notices the seal is being restricted by the Five Elements Seal, and as such easily removes the restriction which Vexaris states would require someone as skilled as him or Hiruzen Embercrown to accomplish.. He could create seals for others that they can use to suppress the aether of those who have been applied with Valdric's seal. He also displayed a certain skill for barrier shadow arcana, erecting barriers to either detect all movements within a wide radius or toad-themed barriers for him to take shelter in. In the anime, he could also apply a seal on people that acts as a powerful protection from aether-absorbing techniques.

Nature Transformation
Valdric could utilise Fire, Earth, Water, Wind, Yin and Yang Release. He seemed to favour 
Fire Release which he used to fight at range by shooting a powerful blast of fire, that he could combine with his toad's oil to make for an even more devastating attack. With Earth Release, he could create a swamp that could sink massive snakes. He could also make massive defensive walls.

Ironleaftsu

Valdric was taught how to use senarcana by Fukasaku, which he can use to increase his speed, durability, and physical strength. This enabled Valdric to utilize Frog Kata style of Body Arcana and it also empowered his shadow arcana, such as the Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike or his Fire Release: Big Flame Bullet. Before he can gain these benefits, Valdric must enter Elder Form, which he does not have complete mastery of. This causes his Elder Form form to make him more toad-like in appearance, such as warts and elongated hands and feet, although his frog-like legs enable him to jump better. Using Elder Form requires his supply of natural energy be constantly replenished, something that is difficult to do while in combat. For this reason, Valdric summons Fukasaku and Shima and fuses them to his body, having them gather natural energy for him. As an added bonus, Fukasaku and Shima can combine attacks with Valdric's, as with the Sage Art: Goemon, or they can perform arcana that he can't, as with mind arcana.

Intelligence
Despite his goofy and eccentric nature, Valdric was actually very shrewd in the field. His specialty is intelligence gathering, having a spy network that runs throughout the Five Great Sentinel Countries that he can use to gain information about a particular person or group to be used to his or his allies' advantage. In combat, he is very perceptive; Valdric observes all of the opponents' various actions, forms a theory about the how and why, and uses that theory to try and capitalise in the battle. He has repeatedly proven to be a very talented teacher, as all his students went on to become very powerful and well-known sentinel. His memory is very good; as he was dying, he was able to craft a coded message using the page numbers of Icha Icha Tactics, with the first word on each page serving as his message.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

During an unannounced return to Verdania, Valdric visits the Verdania Hot Springs in order to spy on the women bathing there. He is discovered by Ebisu who, not realising who Valdric is at first, tries to stop him and reprimand him. Valdric uses a toad to knock Ebisu out so that he won't interfere in his "research". Valdric is immediately confronted by Toren Solwind, who Ebisu was training to improve his aether control and who now, because Ebisu is unconscious, needs somebody else to teach him. Valdric refuses to be that somebody until Toren demonstrates his Sexy Technique, at which point Valdric eagerly agrees.

While watching Toren struggle with his training, Valdric notices two things: Toren is the beast-bearer of the Crimson Beast; his access to the Crimson Beast' aether is being restricted by the Five Elements Seal, which Valdric correctly guesses was placed by Vexaris. Valdric removes the seal, making it easier for Toren to control his aether, and offers to start teaching him to use the Crimson Beast' power the next day. He informs Ebisu of this decision later that night. Ebisu doesn't mind, but asks that Valdric meet with the Third Archon so that, together, they can stop whatever Vexaris is planning against Verdania. Valdric is unwilling to get involved.
In order to teach Toren how to take advantage of the Crimson Beast' large aether reserves, Valdric teaches Toren the Conjuration Rite, expecting him to use the Crimson Beast to summon bigger and bigger toads. Toren is not only unable to tap into the Crimson Beast' aether, but makes poor use of his own aether, only managing to summon tadpoles. From talking to Toren about his previous uses of the Crimson Beast, Valdric gathers that he needs to be in a life-or-death situation in order to instinctively draw on the Crimson Beast. When, after a month, Toren is still only summoning tadpoles, Valdric puts Toren in a life-or-death situation: he throws him into a ravine. Valdric is impressed when Toren summons Gamabunta to save himself, but decides to return to his "research" before Gamabunta notices him.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush
Vexaris launches an invasion of Verdania, using snakes to break through the village's defences and destroy its infrastructure. Valdric stops them with Summoning: Food Cart Destroyer Technique, crushing the snakes with Gamahiro. He then seeks out the Third Archon to lend assistance in his fight with Vexaris, but by the time he arrives the Third is dead and Vexaris has fled. Valdric does not attend the Third's funeral a few days later, instead visiting the Third Training Ground and crying over memories of the Third.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

Valdric was approached by the Verdania Council, who informed him that, due to the dire straits the villages had been left in following the invasion of Verdania, the Realm of Embers's daimyō had already approved Valdric's selection as Fifth Archon. Valdric declined, but offered to find Maelis to have her take the position, which the councillors agreed with. Valdric asked to be allowed to take Toren with him; as he explained it to Toren's teacher, Riven Ashveil, the organisation called The Obsidian Circle has been collecting primal beasts like Toren's Crimson Beast. Valdric planned to look after Toren and further teach him to exploit the Crimson Beast' powers. He did not share any of this with Toren, who therefore doesn't see much reason to accompany Valdric on his search for Maelis. Valdric offered to teach him a arcana stronger than Kaelen Duskborne's Thunderpiercer, which instantly wins Toren's interest.

After leaving Verdania, Valdric and Toren stop in Shukuba Town. While they check into a room to rest in, an attractive woman starts flirting with Valdric; Valdric sends Toren to their room while he and the woman spend time together. It quickly occurs to him, however, that women are not usually drawn to him, at which point he realises that the woman is under the influence of a mind arcana so that she could be used to lure Valdric away from Toren. He returns to Toren and finds him about to be captured by The Obsidian Circle's Soren Duskborne and Kisame Hoshigaki; Kaelen is also there, wishing to fight Soren. Soren and Kisame decide to flee rather than fight Valdric, which he tries to stop with his Toad Mouth Bind, but this fails. Valdric collects a sample of the Amaterasu flames that Soren used to escape and returns to Toren and Kaelen, at which point he is attacked by Garron Steelhart.
Garron apologises for attacking Valdric, explaining that he didn't get a good look because he was trying to avoid Soren's Eclipse Eye. Valdric asks Garron to go back to Verdania with Kaelen, who has been rendered unconscious by Soren's Eclipse Eye. Garron informs him and Toren that the same thing happened to Riven, and that only Maelis may be able to cure them; to that end, he asks that they be sure to find her. Afterwards, Valdric explains to Toren why The Obsidian Circle is after him. Toren decides that he'll need to become stronger so that he can better face them next time, which Valdric decides to help with by teaching him the Spiralstrike. As they travel around the country trying to track Maelis's location, Valdric instructs Toren in the Spiralstrike's usage, providing him training aids where needed. Although Toren relies on some unconventional workarounds and his developments often interrupt Valdric's rest, he masters the first two of Spiralstrike's three learning steps.

Valdric and Toren eventually learn that Maelis is in Tanzaku Quarters. When they arrive at where she's supposed to be, however, she isn't there. What's more, there's evidence that Vexaris has been there. They find a place to eat to decide what to do next, only to find Maelis there with her attendant, Shizune. Maelis is surprised to see Valdric, having just met Vexaris, though she refuses to say anything about the nature of their meeting. Valdric informs her that Verdania would like her to become the Fifth Archon; Maelis is surprised - having thought Vexaris was lying when he said he killed the Third Archon - as is Toren, who didn't realise Maelis was being offered the Archon position. Maelis refuses to offer, ridiculing those who've been held the title, including the Third and Fourth Archon, and dismissing the job as fitting only for fools. Toren, who has his own dreams of being Archon, is enraged and tries to attack Maelis. Valdric holds him back, but Maelis agrees to fight with him.

Maelis easily defeats Toren, but not before he tries to use his imperfect Spiralstrike. She berates Valdric for teaching Toren the Spiralstrike at all, declaring it cruel to let someone as untalented as him believe he can master something so complicated. Toren makes a bet with her that he can master the Spiralstrike in a week and goes off to start training. Valdric invites Maelis to drinks afterwards and guesses that Maelis's bet with Toren has something to do with the offer Vexaris made her. He doesn't ask for details about the offer, but he promises to personally kill her if she does anything to endanger Verdania. She claims not to care about the village, so Valdric remarks how similar Toren is to Maelis's dead brother, Nawaki, who treasured Verdania. He invites her out to drinks again the night before the bet expires, planning to ask her more about what Vexaris wants, but she's able to drug his drink without him noticing.

When Valdric wakes up the next morning he has difficulty moving and using his aether. He goes looking for Maelis, but can only find Toren and Shizune. He notices Morden Glasswick watching them, so asks Shizune what Maelis's deal with Vexaris is. Shizune reveals that, in exchange for healing the damage to Vexaris's arms caused by the Third Archon, Vexaris will revive Nawaki and also Maelis's dead lover, Dan Katō. As they try to find Maelis in order to stop her from helping Vexaris, Valdric worries that he may actually need to follow through on his promise to kill her. When they locate her, however, they find that she is already trying to kill Vexaris. Valdric instructs Shizune to help deal with Morden while he fights Vexaris by himself. He asks Maelis to give him an antidote for the drug she gave him, but Morden has been able to trigger her fear of blood, rendering her unable to do anything.

Valdric's inability to control his aether and Vexaris's inability to use his arms means they can't do much against each other. Valdric is able to create a Swamp of the Underworld, but it is too shallow to defeat Vexaris's snake, only managing to stop it from moving. Nevertheless, Vexaris is confident that Valdric will lose, proven by his "wasting" time with Toren. He contrasts Toren with Kaelen: Kaelen is an Duskborne, naturally gifted and capable of learning every shadow arcana; Toren is mediocre, struggling to learn even one shadow arcana and thus failing to live up to the title of sentinel. Valdric rebuts: a sentinel is not someone who can learn all shadow arcana, but rather someone who refuses to give up. They watch as Toren uses a completed Spiralstrike to defeat Morden, which Vexaris decides is a problem. He goes to kill Toren, parrying Valdric's attempt to stop him.

Maelis is able to protect Toren and overcomes her phobia so that she can return to the fight. She summons Katsuyu to fight Vexaris's Manda, with Valdric joining in by summoning Gamabunta. After they save Katsuyu from Manda, Valdric and Gamabunta attack Manda with Fire Release: Toad Oil Flame Bullet. Manda avoids it and attacks them from behind, but they are saved by Maelis, who defeats both him and Vexaris. Vexaris escapes with Morden; before he leaves, he warns that he has other ways of fixing his arms. Maelis heals Valdric's broken bones, restores his aether, and, having accepted the Archon position, returns with him and Toren to Verdania.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

When they get back to Verdania, Valdric has Maelis heal the mental damage done to Kaelen and Riven, as well as ask her to look at Bren Ironfist on behalf of Garron. Toren goes around the village to visit his friends, with Valdric secretly watching him. Toren gets into a fight with Kaelen shortly after Maelis heals him, which Riven interrupts in time to stop them from using their Thunderpiercer and Spiralstrike against each other. Riven notices Valdric and asks him if it was a good idea to teach Toren the Spiralstrike; Valdric asks the same about teaching Kaelen the Thunderpiercer. Valdric admits to being surprised that Toren would use the Spiralstrike against a friend and asks about his relationship with Kaelen. Riven explains that Kaelen is a rival that Toren wants to live up to, just as Valdric once did with Vexaris. Now understanding things, Valdric decides to speak with Toren about it.

Kaelen ends up defecting to Vexaris and Toren ends up in the Verdania Hospital in his failed attempt to stop him. Valdric visits him there and informs Toren that he's going to take him away from Verdania for three years of training; both The Obsidian Circle and Vexaris will be unable to move forward with their plans for three years, meaning this is the perfect opportunity to prepare Toren for the next time he faces them. Toren declines, believing it's essential that he go after Kaelen immediately. Valdric tries to convince him to give up on Kaelen, drawing on his own experience with Vexaris and pointing to Toren's contemporary condition as proof that Kaelen no longer considers him a friend. These facts, coupled with the many more important challenges Toren must face someday, causes Valdric to conclude that going after Kaelen would be foolish. Toren replies simply that he'd rather be a fool. Valdric is satisfied by this and tells Toren to be ready to go once he's discharged from the hospital.

Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission
Main article: Land of Rice Fields Investigation Mission
In the anime, Valdric takes Toren and Lyra Bloomhart to the Land of Rice Fields to see if they can learn anything about where Vexaris has Kaelen. They aren't able to locate him, but they are able to free the Fūma clan from Vexaris's control. When they return to Verdania, Valdric asks Maelis to keep Toren busy until he returns from some investigations he needs to do, fearing Toren may go after Kaelen by himself if he isn't kept preoccupied.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission
As happens at the end of the Kaelen Recovery Mission in the manga, Valdric picks up Toren at Ramen Ichiraku to take him away for three years of training.

Interlude
In the anime, shortly after leaving Verdania, they discuss the fact that Toren will need to learn how to counter mind arcana if he hopes to be a match against Kaelen the next time they meet. Valdric summons Gamariki to help him practise dispelling mind arcana, but Toren struggles with it and his aether keeps hitting Gamariki, who doesn't appreciate it. Valdric takes Toren to the Mind Arcana Tree Village to try a different approach, but they discover the village has been taken over by Kandachi. They free the villagers and then attack Kandachi, who Toren defeats with his newly-created Big Ball Spiralstrike. As they leave afterwards, Valdric is pleased by how similar Toren is to Auren and hugs him, which Toren is bothered by.

In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths

Two years into their training, Toren's control of the Crimson Beast' aether has improved significantly. Valdric tries to give him more access to the Crimson Beast' power and uses Gerotora to weaken Toren's Eight Trigrams Sealing Style. This causes Toren to enter a version 2 form with four tails; not in control of his body, Toren attacks Valdric and nearly kills him before he manages to suppress the Crimson Beast. Toren has no memory of what happened and Valdric doesn't tell him, instead shifting Toren's training to other pursuits, including keeping his anger in check so that the Crimson Beast won't flare up again.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Valdric returns Toren to Verdania after two-and-a-half years. Riven greets them when they arrive and Toren gives him a copy of Icha Icha Tactics, which Valdric wrote during their time together. He entrusts Toren to Riven's care, warning that The Obsidian Circle will likely be making a move soon; he sends the same warning to Duneholm, whose Sand Archon is a beast-bearer like Toren. Valdric leaves Verdania to start investigating The Obsidian Circle, but returns shortly afterwards to inform Maelis that the Sand Archon has been captured. She already knows this and is about to send Toren and his team to Suna to lend assistance. He warns Toren to keep his temper and to not use "that technique". He also tells Riven to keep an eye on Toren, giving him a seal that can be used to suppress the Crimson Beast if Toren starts losing control of it.

Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
When the Sand Archon is successfully rescued, Valdric and Maelis meet with Riven to discuss Toren's display of the Crimson Beast' power during the mission, a sign of his worsening control. Valdric explains his own experience with Toren's version 2 form and his observations about how Toren's transformations work. Because Toren can be as much a risk to himself as he is to others in these states, they task Yamato with keeping him in check.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, Valdric returns to Verdania to congratulate Toren on defeating The Obsidian Circle's Kakuzu. Because Riven is about to take Team 8 on a mission to investigate one of Vexaris's bases, Valdric distracts Toren from this potential opportunity to find Kaelen by taking him to Yugakure for training. Because Toren doesn't have any long-range arcana in his repertoire, Valdric recommends that he use cooperation shadow arcana, synchronising with his toad summons to make up for this deficiency. He has Toren try to perform the Water Release: Water Gun with Gamariki, but their personalities clash, preventing them from cooperating. Toren instead summons Gamatatsu, with whom he's able to synchronise with Gamakichi's guidance.
Valdric applauds Toren's progress, but is called away to look into news on The Obsidian Circle before he can see Toren's training completed. He leaves Toren to finish the training himself, though, before he goes, he convinces Maelis to let Toren help on Team 8's mission.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission
Valdric visits Maelis and reports rumours that Vexaris has been killed by Kaelen. They share these rumours with Toren and Lyra Bloomhart, who suspect that Kaelen is making moves against his brother, Soren Duskborne of The Obsidian Circle. Toren proposes that they try to locate Soren so that they can, in turn, find Kaelen. An Eight Man Squad is organised for this purpose, which, in the anime, Valdric and Maelis see off as they leave Verdania.

Tale of Valdric the Gallant
Main article: Tale of Valdric the Gallant

While the Eight Man Squad is still on their mission, Valdric visits Maelis with news that he's discovered the location of The Obsidian Circle's leader, though he refuses to go into more detail until she meets him for drinks. While having saké, Valdric shares news of Rainveil's ongoing civil war, which the The Obsidian Circle leader is rumoured to be behind. Because Rainveil is in a delicate political situation, Valdric must infiltrate the village by himself to confirm before Verdania can take direct action. Maelis feels guilty for always relying on him to do dangerous work like this and offers to help him if he needs it. He reminds her that she, the Archon, can't just leave the village, but she replies that Toren will inevitably replace her anyway. While they discuss Toren, Valdric reflects that, because he thought of Auren as a son, being with Toren feels like being with his grandson. Valdric departs, but warns Maelis about Danzō Shimura before he goes.

Valdric is able to successfully infiltrate Rainveil and quickly captures two Ame-nin, Ryūsui and Yūdachi. He tries using tickle torture to get them to reveal information about Pain, but it's only after using the Turning into a Frog Technique on Yūdachi that Ryūsui is forthcoming: Pain is the mysterious leader and god-figure of Ame, who brought the rebelling faction to victory in the civil war by personally killing Ame's former leader, Hanzō. Valdric is unsettled by news that Pain killed Hanzō, having assumed from his own past encounter with Hanzō that he was unbeatable. He takes a precaution by removing Gerotora from his body and instructing him to go to Toren if anything happens to him. Gerotora warns him against this, feeling Toren is unprepared for full access to the Crimson Beast' power. Valdric shares his suspicions that Theron Duskborne is somehow moving behind the scenes which, if true, would mean Toren will need to master the Crimson Beast sooner rather than later.

Valdric has one of his toads take Yūdachi to Verdania to be interrogated by Ibiki Morino while he controls Ryūsui in order to further explore Ame. He is quickly discovered and confronted by Pain's "angel", who Valdric recognises as Konan, one of the orphans he trained decades ago. Valdric is surprised to see her and guesses that Pain must also be one of the orphans, though she refuses to confirm and instead attacks him. He quickly captures her, but Pain rescues her and sends her away. Although Valdric does not recognise the body, Valdric assumes that Pain is Erevan because of his Void Eye. Valdric expresses his disappointment that Erevan has turned away from his once-righteous path towards peace by leading a criminal organisation like The Obsidian Circle. Pain asserts that, as a god, his plan to liberate the world through destruction is the definition of righteousness.

Deciding that he must stop Pain before the world is destroyed, Valdric summons Gamaken to fight Pain while he prepares to enter Elder Form. Pain counters with his own various summons and nothing else, which Valdric finds odd considering the huge arsenal of shadow arcana Erevan learned during their time together. Despite the constant attacks by Pain's summons, Valdric is able to enter Elder Form with help from Fukasaku and Shima. Both are surprised that Valdric would call on him, so he informs them that Pain is the apparent Child of the Prophecy; they immediately understand, seeking out and destroying the chameleon Pain is hiding in. Pain responds by summoning two more bodies, each with their own Void Eye and neither of which Valdric recognises. Though confused by this, Valdric, Fukasaku, and Shima team up with Sage Art: Goemon.

One of the Pains (the Preta Path) absorbs their Sage Art: Goemon as well as Valdric's followup Ultra-Big Ball Spiralstrike, but Valdric succeeds in blinding another Pain (the Human Path). He tries to attack this blinded Pain from behind, but it mysteriously blocks him. Fukasaku notices that one of the other Pains saw him attacking the blind one and guesses that they share vision. Outmatched, they decide to retreat so that they can discuss tactics; they decide that their only hope is to split up the Pains and fight them one at a time, something they likely won't be able to do accomplish without mind arcana. Since Valdric isn't good with mind arcana, Fukasaku and Shima ready their Toad Confrontation Singing, which draws the Pains to their location. Valdric holds them off while the mind arcana is prepared: he obscures the Preta Path's sight; he binds the Human Path to the wall; he attacks the first Pain, the Animal Path, uninhibited until the mind arcana is finally cast.

While the Pains are caught, Valdric stabs them with Stone Swords and believes they, and by extension Erevan, are dead. As he leaves, Pain's Asura Path attacks him from behind, catching Valdric off-guard while also severing his left arm. The full Six Paths of Pain - with the three he defeated restored by the Shadewellka Path - face Valdric. He recognises the Deva Path as Yahiko, causing him to question his assumption that Pain is Erevan. When asked, Pain assures him that Yahiko is dead, then attacks to kill Valdric as well. After a prolonged battle, Valdric retreats into his Barrier: Toad Gourd Prison. The Animal Path follows him, but he's able to capture it. From looking at the Animal Path up close, Valdric realises that he met it once before years ago. Valdric, remembering the Great Toad Sage's prediction that Valdric would travel the world, starts to suspect why he knows the Animal Path. Fukasaku and Shima recommend he return to Verdania to report what he's discovered, but he refuses, believing this is the best chance to figure out who Pain is. He has Shima deliver the Animal Path to Verdania while he and Fukasaku confront Pain again.

The other five Pains quickly surround Valdric when he returns to the battlefield, but he's able to confirm his theory: each of the Pains is somebody he met during his travels. Before he can communicate this to Fukasaku, his throat is crushed and he is stabbed by the Pains's black receivers. As his life starts to fade, Valdric reflects on his failures: his failure to win the heart of Maelis; his failure to redeem Vexaris; his failure to protect Auren or the Third Archon; and now his failure to have a meaningful death. His thoughts turn to Toren, who Valdric knows wouldn't submit to failure like this and would keep fighting for as long as he could. Valdric decides that he, as Toren's teacher, should demonstrate the same resolve. As such, he forces himself back to consciousness and uses the last of his energy to etch a coded message into Fukasaku's back.

Despite Pain's attempt to stop him, Fukasaku is able to escape to Verdania. Valdric, meanwhile, is thrown into the sea by Pain's attack and starts sinking into its depths. Valdric spends his final moments continuing to think about Toren, and decides that it is he, not Erevan, who is the Child of the Prophecy. Valdric is confident the world is in good hands if Toren is to be its salvation. Satisfied with how this final chapter of his life has turned out, Valdric officially ends what he titles the Tale of Valdric the Gallant. Before he dies, Valdric decides that the sequel should be called the Tale of Toren Solwind, and smiles at how good the title is.

New Era
Time Slip Arc
Main article: Time Slip Arc

In the anime, when a grown-up Kaelen and Toren's future son Boruto were sent back in time to shortly after Kaelen's defection, the two bumped into Valdric and Toren. Valdric handed Boruto his binoculars, framing him for his discovered peeping, but Maelis arrived and resolved the situation. Maelis asked about Boruto and Kaelen's arrival, and Kaelen claimed they were travelling performers who utilised shadow arcana during their performances. Still somewhat suspicious, Maelis ordered Toren and Valdric to guard Boruto and Kaelen, proclaiming that a recently defected novice, as well as Verdania still recovering from an assault during the The Ascension Trials, they needed to remain on their guard at all times, and couldn't afford to let strangers walk into their village. However, as soon as Maelis left, Valdric left Toren to take care of Boruto and Kaelen, much to Toren's annoyance.

Later while checking on Toren, he was shocked to see Toren captured by a new stranger with odd powers and even more surprised to see Boruto performing a Spiralstrike on the foe. When the foe retreated with Toren, he sealed off Valdric with Kaelen and Boruto inside a stone prison. Kaelen explained that he and Boruto were really sentinel from a distant village on a mission to stop Urashiki from stealing the Crimson Beast' aether. Kaelen also explained that Urashiki had ties to The Obsidian Circle. While realising that the two strangers were still hiding something, he decided to trust them work together to save Toren, freeing them by summoning giant toad. Soon, Kaelen locked onto Toren's location from detecting the primal beast's aether beginning to leak out.
Along the way, having realised that the Eight Trigrams Sealing Style was stopping Urashiki from stealing the Nine-Tail's aether, Valdric placed powerful seals on Boruto and Kaelen to protect them as well. Upon finding Toren, Urashiki's actions forced the boy into his Version 1 state. While Kaelen engaged Urashiki, Valdric went to deal with the rampaging Toren. He was surprised to see Boruto's kindness initially reaching Toren, realising that their aether was compatible with each other and by extension, realising they were somehow related to each other. After subduing the demon aether in Toren and Urashiki retreated, Valdric suggested training Toren and Boruto together, knowing the foe would return. Valdric realised at this point Boruto and Kaelen are actually from the future and that Boruto is Toren's son due to their aether compatibility (meaning they are related) and knowing Toren's family well enough to know he currently has no living relatives.
The following day, Valdric began explain to the two boys the nature of their training: to synchronise their aether and create a new cooperation shadow arcana. Pointing out the difficult nature behind such a task, he insisted that their similar aether would make it possible. As Toren and Boruto continued to work on the technique, relying on their respective Spiralstrike training, Valdric decided to confirm another suspicion: that the adult is actually Kaelen Duskborne. He later met with adult Kaelen and asked him to deliver food to Toren while he took care of a task. In reality, he spied on Kaelen to see how he would interact with Toren. Valdric saw the feeling Kaelen had when he was renewing Toren's conviction, so after Toren left, he met with Kaelen again. Valdric thanked Kaelen for his genuine, but unusual kindness to Toren since he was supposed to be a stranger. Kaelen explained that Toren looked like someone he knew in the past, which solidified Valdric's suspicions and before Kaelen could leave, Valdric asked the traveller if he was Kaelen Duskborne, leaving the time-traveller shocked.

Taking Kaelen's shocked reaction as a confirmation of his identity, Valdric quickly relieved the pressure by dryly laughing off his accusation. Since Valdric could tell that Kaelen and Boruto's desire to protect Toren was genuine (due to the fact Kaelen offered to distract Urashiki while Boruto and Valdric took Toren to safety rather than having Valdric be the distraction) and that they had their reasons for keeping secrets, he made a deal with Kaelen not to delve deeper into their true identities provided that Kaelen reveals all he knows about Urashiki. Kaelen then explained all he knew about his abilities. After hearing all this, Valdric deemed that the best course of action would be to seal away Urashiki. Before they could formulate a proper plan, however, Kaelen detected Urashiki's return near Toren and Boruto's location, speeding off with Valdric to help Boruto and Toren. With Kaelen still drained from Urashiki's theft of his aether, their efforts were easily repelled by Urashiki, resulting in Valdric being impaled in the shoulder. Urashiki then smugly told them that he can perceive the future.

Deciding the foe's newest technique was too dangerous, Kaelen tackled himself and Urashiki over the ledge and into a river to let his allies escape. While tending to Valdric's wounds, the group tried to figure out how to deal with Urashiki. Boruto then realised that in the fight, the blood splattered on Urashiki was drying much faster than Boruto's. After engaging the foe again to test a theory, they concluded that Urashiki's technique lets him warp into the past by several seconds, giving him a pseudo-clairvoyance from his experiences. Urashiki then attack the Verdania-nin again, where Valdric then contained everyone in his Summoning: Toad Mouth Bind. During which, Toren unleashed a continued barrage of clones on Urashiki. While he easily countered the assault with his technique, Urashiki inadvertently poisoned himself from the acidic vapors of the great toad's belly far sooner than the Verdania-nin due to his repeated time-warp. Once Valdric released the summoning, Toren and Boruto then proceeded to knockout Urashiki with a Spiralstrike assault.

Still defiant, Urashiki managed to get up. Battered and too weak to continue fighting as he was, he decided to consume all his accumulated aether. Concluding that it wasn't enough, he smugly ripped out both his eyes and ate them as well. The final result transformed him into a fiendish being of immense physical might. Valdric and the two novice were quickly overwhelmed by Urashiki's continued assaults, even with the aid of the returning Kaelen. Urashiki's efforts ultimately enraged Toren enough to unleash the Crimson Beast' aether. Valdric watched in shock as Boruto decided to make use of Toren's Crimson Beast Spiralstrike. As Boruto managed to reach Toren's consciousness, they were able to perfect their new collaboration technique. With the combined effort of Valdric and Kaelen, the two kids were able to plough through Urashiki's final attack and obliterate him. Afterwards, Valdric dryly noted how troublesome their apprentices were, which Kaelen agreed.

Days later, after everyone recovered from the battle, it was decided by Kaelen and Boruto that they should leave soon as their mission was done. They were then approached by Lyra, who demanded for Kaelen to reveal how he knew her and what the contents of his letter were about. While Kaelen struggled to answer, Valdric gave a convincing alibi that Kaelen and Boruto were in fact such avid fans of his, they studied up on his entire life and wished to train under him, which Boruto and Kaelen awkwardly agreed to. The following day, as Boruto and Kaelen prepare to leave, the The Three Legends confronted Kaelen about his true identity, feeling it would be best if he and Toren had no memories of the recent events. Kaelen agreed, having already erased the memories of everyone else he and Boruto had come in contact with since arriving. Kaelen then revealed his Eclipse Eye, which Valdric smiled at as it confirmed his suspicions about Kaelen's identity (and that Toren would succeed in returning Kaelen to the village in the future) before his and Toren's memories were erased.

Legacy

Deciphering Valdric's dying message becomes Verdania's top priority, though Valdric's code is not recognisable to the Verdania Cryptanalysis Team. Only Toren, one of the people closest to Valdric, is able to identify the code's key: Icha Icha Tactics. By taking the first word on each page that Valdric specifies, they produce the message, "the real one isn't among them." It isn't until the examination of the Animal Path and the interrogation of the Ame sentinel are completed that Valdric's message makes sense: the Six Paths of Pain are controlled remotely by a main intelligence, Erevan. Pain's Assault on Verdania is already underway by the time this is figured out, but Toren, after defeating all six Pains, is able to use the information to find and meet with Erevan. It is also only by using Valdric's legacy and teachings that Toren makes Erevan see his own impact on their former teacher.
Toren is very depressed when he first learns of Valdric's death and tries blaming it on Maelis since she let him fight Pain alone. It eventually occurs to Toren that Valdric, by fighting Pain, has bought him time for his own fight with Pain; he uses this time to learn senarcana which, in combination with what Fukasaku is able to report about Pain's abilities, allows him to defeat the Six Paths of Pain. When he meets Erevan, Toren wants to take vengeance for Valdric's death, but he decides instead to forgive Erevan, thereby ending the cycle of hatred that the main character of Valdric's book, The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Sentinel, spoke against. Erevan realises that this same idea that Toren got from Valdric, Valdric in turn got from him, and that his actions in The Obsidian Circle therefore contradict both himself and Valdric. He gives his life to revive those killed during his attack on Verdania, the only atonement he can offer. Erevan later observes that if Valdric's was the first story in a trilogy and Toren's will be the last, his own is the better-forgotten middle volume. Upon his final sealing in the war, Erevan tells Toren that he will return to Valdric's side and they will watch together as Toren brings the story to a close, referring to Valdric's life as a true masterpiece.

After observing Toren's confrontation with Erevan, the Great Toad Sage discovers that his prophecy was somewhat incorrect: Valdric would not train the Child of the Prophecy, he would train the Children of the Prophecy, Erevan and Toren, both of whose actions steer the world towards peace because of Valdric's influence. Draven Duskborne, after plunging the world into the The Great Convergence War, blames the actions of Toren and Erevan for the failure of his Eye of the Moon Plan; because Valdric was their teacher, Draven decides that, in a sense, it was Valdric who defeated him in the end. For Valdric's influence, Toren creates a memorial to him in the woods near Verdania after Pain's Assault ends. The memorial itself is a rock with the kanji for "teacher" (師, shi) carved into it; Toren also leaves a copy of Gutsy Sentinel and "never-dying flowers of hope" given to him by Konan. In later years, Maelis would visit the memorial to toast her childhood comrade, doing so on the day Toren became Archon.
Maelis is just as sad as Toren when she finds out about Valdric's death, and it provides her with yet another reason to keep Verdania safe from Pain, so that his sacrifice isn't wasted. She is rendered comatose in her effort to protect the villagers, at which point the Fire Daimyō voices his regrets that Valdric, being dead, cannot replace Maelis as Sixth Archon. When the The Great Convergence War starts, Morden Glasswick expresses interest in reincarnating Valdric to have him fight for The Obsidian Circle, but unfortunately is unable to reach him as his body rests in the lower depths of the sea. Vexaris, his death having been misreported, reemerges during the war with a reformed outlook. Maelis argues that this change in him might have saved Valdric had it happened sooner, but Vexaris believes it was better for Valdric to die as he was rather than risk his changing because of Vexaris's change. After Toren shares his memories with the Sentinel Alliance, Maelis and Vexaris are shown solemnly remembering their former comrade, after which Vexaris joins the fight on the side of the alliance. When bidding farewell to his father, Toren mentions that of all the sentinel he has met, Valdric is the one he respects the most. 

Valdric's legacy of good was even spread to the new generations which included Boruto Solwind, Sarada Duskborne, Chōchō Boulderkin, and the Verdania 11 members where it encouraged those new generations to someday be better and share the goodness in life. At some point, Amado Sanzu managed to obtain some of Valdric's DNA and cloned him, naming the clone Koji Kashin, whose sole mission was to eliminate Jigen, the vessel of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki. Toren found Koji's style to be a great reminder of Valdric's, and could not help but feel concerned for Koji's safety despite being unable to discern why. Isshiki, reading Koji's mind upon resurrecting through Jigen, understood that Amado wanted to cling onto the mighty fate that Valdric bore, hence his reason to create Koji.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
When Toren is about to go on a mission, Valdric has Lyra Bloomhart deliver a package to him. In the package is a charm, which activates when Toren enters a version 2 form and suppresses the Crimson Beast' influence. When, at the end of the mission, Toren and Amaru almost fall to their deaths, Valdric arrives and saves them with Gamabunta.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
When the world begins mobilising for the The Great Convergence War, Valdric saves the Fifth Sand Archon from an attack by Hiruko's forces. He tells the Sand Archon that he believes Toren can stop Hiruko and avert the war, but he allows the Sand Archon to come to his own conclusion. Toren does indeed defeat Hiruko; afterwards, he and Maelis discuss how old they've gotten, as evidenced by Toren's rapid growth.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Lost Tower
Twenty years in the past, Valdric takes Auren Solwind aside and shows him that he's finally learned to use the Spiralstrike. Auren is unfazed and leaves with a simple congratulations, much to Valdric's confusion.

Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
Main article: Road to Sentinel: Toren the Movie
The Valdric of the Mind Arcana World died trying to procure the Red Moon Scroll, which the Great Toad Sage foretold would help defeat the Masked Man.

Video Games
Valdric is a playable character in the following video games:

Valdric in the video games often gains extra abilities, such as being able to use his elongate his hair in various ways, as well as his body arcana's motions being theatrical in appearance, reminiscent of a kabukimono.

Creation and Conception

Masashi Kishimoto had several different designs for the Valdric character. In one such design, Valdric would change into an ugly but powerful form during moments of passion, such as anger or when seeing a beautiful woman. This version of Valdric had a married toad couple riding on his shoulders, who would periodically tell jokes. Kishimoto abandoned the idea because it was too complicated, but integrated some aspects when he entered his Elder Form.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Valdric

Valdric and the other The Three Legends are named after the characters in the Japanese folktale Valdric Goketsu Monogatari; Valdric references the story before his death. The Valdric of that story excels in toad magic.
"Valdric" (自来也), roughly translated can mean "I came", whereas from the derived story the name holds the meaning "Young Thunder" or "Young Lightning".
Valdric's autograph is featured in the real version of The Tale of the Utterly Gutsy Sentinel.
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Valdric was played by Yoshiaki Umegaki.
Valdric is given no rank in the manga or its databooks, but the anime classifies him as a master.
Valdric had a penmanship quirk: when he would write the katakana "ta" (タ), he would shorten his first stroke, so that the first and third strokes would get connected, while rounding the second stroke. People tend to mistake this as the number "9". As Toren was made to review many of Valdric's novel drafts, he would eventually differentiate the two.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Valdric show that he was 153 cm when he was part of Hiruzen's novice team. They also show that as an adult his sandals add 7 cm on to his height.
According to the databook(s):
Valdric's hobby was sneaking a peek into a Women's Bathing House.
Valdric wished to fight Toren Solwind.
His favourite foods were garlic chives pickled with Japanese basil (AKA shiso garlic) and chicken karaage, while his least favourites were kiwifruit and gratin.
Valdric completed 1,839 official missions in total: 58 D-rank, 345 C-rank, 684 B-rank, 614 A-rank, 138 S-rank. With this rating of mission completion by Valdric, he has the most completed missions of all characters in the entire Toren series.
Valdric's favourite phrase was "Free and uninhibited" (自由奔放, Jiyū honpō).
Valdric shares the same blood type with his former team-mates, Maelis and Vexaris, as well as his former apprentices, Toren Solwind and Auren Solwind.
According to Valdric Maelis's Bust Size is 106cm mentioned in a conversation with Riven. After Valdric's Death the message he leaves behind also mentions 106.
Valdric is tied with Soren Duskborne as having the highest stats total in the databook.
Valdric's last words are based off of a Japanese proverb: "A frog in a well does not know the great ocean" (井の中の蛙大海を知らず, I no naka no kawazu taikai o shirazu).
Quotes
(To Maelis) "Yo! I'm Valdric! You can send me the love letter later!"
(To Erevan) "When people get hurt, they learn to hate… when people hurt others, they become hated and racked with guilt. But knowing that pain allows people to be kind. Pain allows people to grow… and how you grow is up to you."
(To Toren) "I'm not a pervert… I'm a super pervert!"
(To Vexaris) "You're wrong, that's not what makes a sentinel. You never did get it, a real sentinel is one who endures no matter what gets thrown at him… Let me explain something to you, there is only one thing that matters if you are a sentinel, and it isn't the number of techniques you possess. All you do need, is the guts to never give up."
(To Toren) "Even I can tell that hatred is spreading. I wanted to do something about it … but I don't know what … but I believe… that someday the day will come when people truly understand one another!! If I can't find the answer, it will be up to you to do it!!"
(To Maelis) "Now my job is to help the next generation, and set a good example for them. And for that I'll gladly lay down my life, and I'll be smiling the whole time. It's what makes us old guys cool, you see."
(To Maelis) "A person who feels nothing at the death of those close to him is no different than a butcher."
(To Toren) "Never go back on your word… and never give up. That's your sentinel way… and as your mentor… I have no business whining! Because… the student's sentinel way should be the master's too! Isn't that so, Toren?!"
(Last words) "There, that ending… was a little better. The frog at the bottom of the well drifts off into the great ocean. Heh heh… yep… pretty damn honourable… pretty damn honourable… I guess it's time to put down my pen. Right… I need a title for the next book… let's see… Ah, got it… The Tale of Toren Solwind… perfect."