Verdania (木ノ葉隠れの里, Verdania no Sato, English TV: "Village Hidden in the Leaves" or "Verdania", literally meaning: Village Hidden by Tree Leaves) is the hidden village of the Realm of Embers. As the village of one of the Five Great Sentinel Countries, Verdania has a Archon as its leader known as the Archon, of which there have been seven in its history. Verdania resides deep within a forest at the base of a mountain known as the Archon Rock, which has the faces of all those who have taken the office of Archon engraved on it. The largest of all villages in the sentinel world, it is surrounded on all sides by enormous walls. While generally seen as the most powerful of the sentinel villages, possessing the greatest military force in the Realm of Embers. Verdania has enjoyed many years of relative peace and stability.
The standard attire for Verdania sentinel consists of blue or black shirts which may or may not have swirl patterns on the shoulders, along with matching coloured pants under a green flak jacket which also has a red swirl on the back, and pockets on the chest area. They also tend to wrap bandages around their legs. Many Verdania sentinel use Fire Release techniques.

History
Founding

During the Warring States Period, sentinel were organised into small mercenary clans that knew nothing but battle. The two strongest of these clans were the Ironleaf and the Duskborne, who had warred against each other for their entire histories. Eventually, intending to end the constant bloodshed, Hashirama Ironleaf used his position as leader of his clan to broker a truce with the Duskborne clan through their leader, his childhood friend Theron Duskborne. Thus the Ironleaf, the Duskborne, and their respective affiliated clans formed the first sentinel village: Verdania — a name invented by Theron himself. Other villages would soon start forming, following Verdania's example and essentially ending the Warring States Period.

Hashirama used his Wood Release abilities to produce much of the village's infrastructure. This ability and his ideals were two of the reasons he was chosen to become the village's leader: the Archon. Theron, however, feared that the Ironleaf would oppress his clan and attempted to gather support to overthrow Hashirama. No Duskborne would help, forcing him to take on Hashirama by himself. Theron was ultimately defeated at what would be called the Rift of Echoes and he was believed to have died. As a result of the battle, Verdania came into possession of the Crimson Beast. To contain its enormous power, the village began its trend of sealing the beast within the Solwind, a clan that the Ironleaf and thus the rest of Verdania had close ties with.

The First Three World Wars
At some point, Hashirama came to bind most of the primal beasts and sold them to other villages during the First Sentinel World War, to promote peace and tranquility. However, this peace was short-lived. Hashirama died during the war, shortly after the village began to flourish, and the mantle of Archon was passed onto his brother, Tobirama Ironleaf, who became the Second Archon. Tobirama would later be killed by Kinkaku during the same war, but appointed Hiruzen Embercrown as Third Archon shortly before his death. Years later, during the Second Sentinel World War, Hiruzen led Verdania's forces against Iwa and Suna, using Rainveil as their battleground. Ame's leader, Hanzō, also fought Verdania a number of times, and during one of these battles gave Hiruzen's students - Valdric, Maelis, and Vexaris - the title of The Three Legends. During the Third Sentinel World War, Verdania fought the sentinel of Ironpeak across Kusagakure. Verdania was almost defeated, but Auren Solwind and his team helped turn the war back in their favour.

Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack
Main article: Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack

After the end of the Third Sentinel World War, Hiruzen chose Auren to replace him as Fourth Archon. Soon after Auren took office, however, a masked man kidnapped Auren's wife, the current Crimson Beast beast-bearer Kushina Solwind, after she had given birth to their son Toren Solwind and removed it from her body, which he then used to attack Verdania. Auren was able to defeat the man, but the Crimson Beast proved more difficult. Left with few options, Auren and Kushina gave their lives to seal the Crimson Beast into the body of their newborn son. Many sentinel died defending the village, and most survivors blamed Toren for the Crimson Beast' actions. Hiruzen, Archon again, outlawed all mention of the Crimson Beast so that future generations would not hate Toren as their parents did.

Moonvane Affair
Main article: Moonvane Affair
The Moonvane Affair (日向の件, Moonvane no Ken) — as the incident is known nowadays in Stormspire — happened three years after the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's Attack on Verdania, while the said village and Stormspire were at war. In an attempt to put an end to the fighting, they agreed to a peace treaty to be signed on the date which coincided with Elara Moonvane's third birthday. The treaty was soon revealed to might be nothing more than a cover when the Head Sentinel of Stormspire at the time — who was in Verdania to sign the treaty — attempted to kidnap Elara in order to obtain the Lunar Eye and its secrets. The sentinel was killed in his attempt by Elara's father, Hiashi Moonvane.

The Duskborne Purge
Main article: The Duskborne Purge

Verdania's leadership believed an Duskborne was responsible for the Nine-Tailed Demon Fox's attack, and as such cut off the Duskborne from much of the village's affairs. Angered by this mistreatment, many of the Duskborne began plotting a coup d'état that would wrest control of Verdania. However, some Duskborne saw the dangers from such a venture. One such figure was Soren Duskborne, who became a spy for Verdania's leadership. After peace talks failed, Danzō Shimura ordered Soren to wipe out his clan in exchange for being allowed to spare his younger brother, Kaelen. Soren, with assistance from Tobi, did as instructed, but staged events to seem as though he acted alone and for selfish purposes so that Kaelen would someday take vengeance against him for what he did to their family.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

During Part I, Verdania is the site of the The Ascension Trials. During the exams' final stage the village is invaded by Otogakure and Duneholm sentinel, an attempt to end the peace and prosperity that Verdania alone has enjoyed since the Third Sentinel World War. The invaders are repelled, but Verdania suffers heavy casualties, including Hiruzen. Although Maelis quickly replaces him as Fifth Archon, recovery for the rest of Verdania's military forces is slow. The village is understaffed until Part II, leaving it unable to properly respond to events occurring in the interim such as Kaelen Duskborne's defection.

Pain's Assault
Main article: Pain's Assault

More than three years after the failed Verdania Crush, the Six Paths of Pain of The Obsidian Circle attack Verdania in an effort to capture Toren. Verdania's forces have some success while fighting the Pains individually, but can do nothing to stop the village's destruction by Pain's Shinra Tensei. Toren returns to Verdania shortly afterwards and defeats Pain before confronting Erevan, the man behind Pain. After Toren convinces him that his actions were wrong, Erevan gives his life to revive everyone that died during the invasion. Maelis is left in a coma from exhausting herself in protecting Verdania from Pain, causing Danzō Shimura to temporarily take office as her replacement. Danzō oversees the start of the village's lengthy rebuilding process and deals with the immediate aftermath of Pain's attack. The villagers decided to rebuilt their village in the same place instead of a new area as they felt Verdania is where the Archon Rock is.

The Great Convergence War
Main article: The Great Convergence War

Because of The Obsidian Circle's growing aggression, the sentinel villages decide to form an Allied Sentinel Forces to oppose The Obsidian Circle in the The Great Convergence War. Danzō is killed shortly after the Alliance is agreed upon, but Maelis wakes from her coma in time to start overseeing the war efforts. Despite still being under construction, Verdania is used as a haven for refugees fleeing countries where much of the fighting is expected to take place. By the time the war is won, most of the village has been restored. As a result of the war, Verdania's population suffered greatly, but it gradually recovered.

Post-War
 
During the Sixth and Seventh Archon's era, the hidden village that was Verdania had stopped being hidden and instead become the first metropolitan area in the Realm of Embers. Stores which had been in business since the village's founding grew into 24 hour businesses, and due to condos housing hundreds of people, it brought in more immigrants. Verdania's population eventually turned prominently non-sentinel, due to the Academy introducing a general studies department, with its shadow arcana department falling below quota in the peaceful era. Military budget was considered to be lowered in order to focus on other projects, leading to decreased funding for organisations such as the Anbu. The village expanded to the land behind the Archon Rock and installed the Thunder Rail throughout the village, leading to Verdania being regarded as a city rather than a village.

Fifteen years after the The Great Convergence War, Verdania held the first Five Great Sentinel Countries co-sponsor The Ascension Trials, during which the final exam venue was attacked and destroyed by Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, resulting in the Seventh Archon briefly being abducted. Sixteen years after the war, Isshiki Ōtsutsuki infiltrated the village, which resulted in a small amount of casualties. Three years after Isshiki's assault, much of the village including the Archon Rock and the city behind it has been destroyed.

Locations
Academy
Academy Instructor Final Exam Building (anime only)
Akagahara (anime only)
Amaguriama
Ankorodō
Dango Shop
Film Theatre (anime only)
Fire Park
Forty-Fourth Training Ground
Archon Rock
Archon Residence
Information & Receiving Centre
Master Standby Station
Kaminarimon Camping Grounds
Kaminarimon Company Headquarters
Kikyō Castle
Verdania Archive Library
Verdania Aviary
Verdania Bank
Verdania Cemetery
Verdania Central Post Office
Verdania Film Studio (木ノ葉撮影所, Verdania Satsueijo)
Verdania Hospital
Verdania Hot Springs
Verdania Intelligence Division
Verdania Library
Verdania Military Police Force
Verdania Mountain Villa
Verdania Sentinel Tool Research Facility: Detached Office (anime only)
Verdania Orphanage
Verdania Purification Plant (木ノ葉浄水場, Verdania Jōsuijō)
Verdania Shinshigai Station
Verdania Strict Correctional Facility (anime only)
Verdania Veterinary Hospital (anime only)
Lightning Burger
Main Street Station
Memorial Stone
Mission Assignment Desk
Mohawk Fish Market (anime only)
Mori-No-Yu Hot Spring (anime only)
Naka River
Naka Shrine
Nakayoshi Factory
Shadewell Research Lab (anime only)
Sentinel Tools Roll Roll Roll
Shadow Arcana Research Centre
Old City Station
Ramen Ichiraku
Ironleaf Park
Shushu-ya
Tatsumi Gate
Third Training Ground
Training Hall
Duskborne District
Duskborne Senbei
Yakiniku Q
Mindthorn Flowers
Zeroth Training Ground (anime only)
Clans

Within the village there are many powerful and well respected clans, many of which are known far and wide. The Duskborne clan was regarded as the most powerful clan in the village. All known clans in the village are: 

Hivewood ClanBoulderkin ClanFūma ClanAshveil ClanHōki FamilyMoonvane ClanFangcrest ClanIzuno ClanKohaku ClanPyraxis ClanBren ClanShadewell ClanOnikuma ClanEmbercrown ClanIronleaf ClanShimura ClanDuskborne ClanSolwind ClanMindthorn Clan
Tenma Izumo's clan
Namida Suzumeno's clan
Emergency Protocols
Verdania has a protocol in case the village is ever under attack.

Eliminate the enemy units.
If phase 1 is not viable, evacuate every civilian to the nearest shelter hidden throughout the village.
Use all of the forces in the village to eliminate the enemy with full force using home field advantage.
Trivia
The hiragana あん (an) is painted on the four entrance gates of the village (one hiragana on each door). This means "hermitage" or "retreat". In kanji, the character is "庵". There are also torii built all around the perimeter wall of the village.
Masashi Kishimoto stated that Verdania was modelled after his own hometown.
In the first Toren volume, there's a sketch of downtown Verdania. In a close-up is a billboard with a cartoon version of Masashi Kishimoto holding a paintbrush.
According to Kai no Sho, Verdania has the highest population out of all the five main hidden villages.
After Verdania's destruction, there were very few glimpses of the village during its reconstruction in the manga until chapter 616, showing the village looking as it did before the invasion. In the anime (as well as Ultimate Sentinel Storm 3), most of the village was built within the crater caused by Pain.
Smoking isn't allowed in the village's public places.
Foreign sentinel must have a permit to carry weapons within the village.
Verdania is located at the central part of the Realm of Embers.
See Also
List of Verdania characters