Vexaris (大蛇丸) is one of Verdania's legendary The Three Legends. With a life-ambition to learn all of the world's secrets, Vexaris seeks immortality so that he might live all of the lives necessary to accomplish his task. After being caught red-handed performing unethical experiments on his fellow citizens for the sake of this immortality, Vexaris defected from Verdania rather than be persecuted for his ambitions, and for many years sought the village's destruction in order to take revenge and demonstrate what he had learned. After realising the flaws of his approach in life from witnessing it emulated by Morden Glasswick, his former associate, Vexaris began focusing his research on the development of life rather than its manipulation after seeing the actions of his former apprentice, Kaelen Duskborne.

Background

Vexaris was an orphan who became a pupil of Hiruzen Embercrown alongside Valdric and Maelis. Compared to the more laid back Valdric, Vexaris stood out as a genius — his talents, insight, and determination were considered by Hiruzen to be that of a prodigy seen only once in a generation. According to Maelis, Vexaris had a twisted personality even as a child. His sadistic attitude was presumably due to the death of his parents. At some point after losing them, Vexaris found a white snake near his parents' grave, with Hiruzen's explanation of it representing fortune and rebirth inspiring Vexaris to study the secrets of life and obtain knowledge of all techniques. Valdric theorised that Vexaris went down this path in an attempt to forget his painful memories.

During the Second Sentinel World War, Vexaris joined Valdric and Maelis in fighting Hanzō, who gave them the title of Verdania's "Three Legendary Sentinel" (伝説の三忍, Densetsu no The Three Legends) as a reward for surviving their battle with him, while the rest of their group were easily slaughtered in the process. On their way back to Verdania, they encountered three Rainveil orphans, with Vexaris proposing a mercy killing before Valdric chose to train them instead. In the anime, Vexaris orchestrated the last known rampage of the Eight-Tails in Stormspire by infiltrating the village while disguised as a Kumo-nin and posing as Blue B's doctor in order to trick him into taking special mind arcana inducing pills, allowing him to extract the primal beast. After its rampage, Vexaris obtained the severed horn of the Eight-Tails and harvested Blue B's DNA from it.
Vexaris would go on to fight in the Third Sentinel World War, with his performance in the war being so great that he was considered as a candidate for Fourth Archon alongside fellow war hero Auren Solwind.

Sometime after Team Hiruzen was disbanded, Vexaris became an Anbu member and joined Root to work directly under Danzō Shimura, while also mentoring future legendary sentinel such as Anko Mitarashi. It was during that time that Vexaris met Morden Glasswick while accompanying Danzō in forcing the boy's guardian, Nonō, into a mission. While Vexaris's ambitions did include becoming the Fourth Archon, he intended to use the title for his own agenda. Though Hiruzen knew the potential evil his former pupil had in him, he hoped to stir Vexaris from the path before slowly realising that he was beyond anyone's help. When Hiruzen finally named Auren his successor, Vexaris saw no more reason to remain in Verdania and began to be less discreet with his actions, resulting in him beginning to experiment on humans to further his research. This led to his implanting of Hashirama Ironleaf's DNA into sixty children he kidnapped to recreate the First's Wood Release, having help from Danzō. Believing it to be a failure, Vexaris was unaware that one child had survived his Wood Release experiment. Vexaris also learned the Second Archon's forbidden Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation during this time.
Around this time, he also met a mysterious young man named Shin, taking him in as another subordinate and research subject. With Shin's uniquely adaptive biology, harvesting much of his anatomy, Orichmaru was able to unlock many great truths of genetics and further his own biological development for general enhancements and new methods of cloning. This also refined his Wood Release researched enough to inject Hashirama's cells into the Eclipse Eye-infused right arm of Shin, which he transplanted to Danzō. Sometime after, Shin betrayed Vexaris and left with almost all the independent clones of Shin that Vexaris made. 
Vexaris performed various experiments on his prisoners, some being fellow Verdania sentinel he kidnapped. He used them as human guinea pigs to develop techniques that would grant him immortality, the end result being Living Corpse Reincarnation. Some time later, Vexaris was at the outskirts of Misthollow as he found Kimimaro, the sole survivor of the Kaguya clan. Soon after, thanks in part to Kimimaro, Vexaris's research on the source of Jūgo's powers led him to find the Serpent's Hollow and master senarcana. Unable to enter Elder Form because of the fragility of his host body, Vexaris instead developed an alternate method of harnessing his senarcana aether through cursed seals, which he tested on Anko and several others before eventually using the finalised versions on Kimimaro and the Sound Four. In the anime, Vexaris found the Iburi clan living underground near Verdania. Taking an interest in their ability to become smoke, Vexaris took advantage of the clan's fear of their imperfect and potentially fatal transformation by partially stabilising it with his cursed seals. Telling them that he needed more research to perfect the process, the clan willingly gave Vexaris test subjects. In the anime, Vexaris witnessed Soren Duskborne performing a training run normally meant for older and more experienced users due to the danger of it. After the young Duskborne flawlessly completed it, Vexaris instantly became amazed and excited at Soren's advanced growth rate. In the anime, he also allied himself with Amachi out of interest for creating a sentinel capable of underwater combat, kidnapping Land of the Sea villagers for their experiments, while introducing Anko to the project. Sometime after, Vexaris lost interest in the project, and ordered Amachi to cancel it, while also seeing Anko as a lost cause for her refusal to use the cursed seal, and wiped her memories as she left him.
Vexaris was later sent on a mission by Danzō to Ironpeak to ensure that both Morden and Nonō, the former having joined Root as a spy, killed each other as they had become major liabilities. Vexaris instead brought Morden to his hideout, which would become part of his personal hidden village, Otogakure, and revealed Root's intent for Morden's life and the role he was to play in it. Though Vexaris revealed that he was also sent to kill the one who survived this ordeal, he told Morden that he saw a bit of himself in the boy and decided killing him would be a waste of great talent. Therefore, Vexaris offered Morden a position as his right hand man and spy with the promise of an identity.

As his test subjects began to die off, Vexaris was caught red-handed by Hiruzen. Though he knew it was his duty, Hiruzen lacked the will to kill his student, allowing him to escape. In the anime, during his escape, Vexaris was found by Riven Ashveil. Despite the young prodigy's best efforts, Vexaris swiftly defeated him. Letting his guard down at the approach of a snake, Vexaris was greatly injured by an explosive tag concealed in the snake's mouth. Cursing Hiruzen for ruining his plans, though greatly injured, Vexaris quickly regained his composure. He then resumed his retreat from the country, leaving a terrified Riven frozen in place from his malicious glare alone. Seriously wounded, Vexaris visited the cave where the Iburi clan lived and killed them all, trying to restore his power. Upon the arrival of the youngest member, Yukimi, Vexaris pursued her while being chased by Riven Ashveil and Kinoe. Eventually, he managed to take a sample of Yukimi's blood, intending to inject it into himself to temporarily gain her ability and slip across the border, but he was attacked before he could do so and quickly escaped. Vexaris managed to destroy most of his research facilities and booby-trap the rest. 

Vexaris ultimately escaped Verdania after fighting Valdric, who attempted to reason with him one final time to no avail, leaving his emotionally broken mentor, and former friend's plea for him to reconsider falling on deaf ears.. Vexaris soon became affiliated with and joined the elite criminal organisation The Obsidian Circle. Vexaris was then partnered with Sasori, with whom he did much good for the organisation. He later watched in amazement when Soren Duskborne joined the organisation. Later, when Vexaris saw his opportunity to steal his body to gain possession of the Eclipse Eye after gaining intel on him through Sasori via Morden, Soren used his Eclipse Eye to stop him from doing so, while also cutting Vexaris's left hand off to prevent him from breaking the mind arcana he was under, which lead to him leaving The Obsidian Circle to acquire a new body. For Vexaris's defection, Sasori developed a grudge against him and used Morden, whom Vexaris had sent to serve as his spy within The Obsidian Circle, to counter spy as his sleeper agent. However, Vexaris discovered and undid the technique Sasori had used on him. In the anime, when tipped off by Morden that Sasori was on his trail, Vexaris chose to use this as an opportunity to test his development of the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation. Against Sasori's Third Sand Archon puppet, Vexaris summoned the actual Third Sand Archon through his technique. While proving his reincarnated sentinel being stronger than the human puppet, the technique ultimately proved incomplete as the Third Sand Archon was able to regain control and break the summoning contract.
After leaving the The Obsidian Circle, Vexaris continued to build up his network of hideouts, eventually culminating in the formation of Otogakure which greatly grew in influence after just a few years. In the anime, Vexaris had wormed his influence into the Land of Rice Fields (田の国, Ta no Kuni, English TV: Land of Rice Paddies) and convinced its daimyō into establishing his own hidden village at the newly rechristened Land of Sound. Taking advantage of the country's many local sentinel clans having suffered from war, many survivors joined Vexaris's cause, being lured by his power and the promise to help revive their clans, including Arashi's faction of the Fūma Clan.
Vexaris had also been on a life-long search for the Sword of Totsuka, an ethereal sword, but was unaware that it was in the possession of Soren's Susanoo. In the anime, Vexaris witnessed Mizuki killing a comrade during a mission. Intrigued by Mizuki's view of doing what was needed for a mission, under the pretence as a gift for Mizuki's bold actions, Vexaris granted him a specialised cursed seal. In truth however, it was an incomplete experimental tool that would destroy whoever used it, to which Vexaris was merely curious as to how the effects would happen on Mizuki.

Personality

Vexaris possesses a complex personality; however, more often than not, he was described as "twisted" by a large number of people, including Maelis. Valdric's speculation that the death of his parents while he was young scarred him, along with his sympathy for Maelis losing Dan in the anime, implies that Vexaris grew to disdain the fragility of human life and how it affected those still living, which led him to desire immortality. To that end, the primary purpose of Vexaris's human experimentation is to test what modifications the human body can endure and harness a subject's unique abilities for himself. Once accomplishing this goal, Vexaris had hoped to be worthy of the title of "ultimate being", unable to die and able to achieve his secondary goal to learn every sentinel technique in the world, which would normally take many lifetimes to obtain.

According to Kaelen, becoming cruel with any good he had as a member of Team Hiruzen long gone, Vexaris's agenda made him develop a god complex and highly value himself while delighting in striking terror in his first impressions. Though causing conflict to ease his boredom, Vexaris seems to have no interest in wars started by others. He is also somewhat of a perfectionist, always striving to make his various projects succeed, and likewise looks down on those who are sloppy and/or reckless in their own projects. His charisma also attracts a number of followers, many of which he would not hesitate to send on potential suicide missions if for his own personal benefit, expressing some remorse if they're unable to properly complete a task, and having no sentimental attachments to any of them despite their value to his goals. Despite this, Vexaris has genuine interest in the development of his underlings and experiments. Likewise, Vexaris is treacherous by nature, unhesitant in double-crossing any allies if it would benefit him, having assassinated the Fourth Sand Archon to impersonate him so as to making it easier to manipulate Duneholm, while using The Obsidian Circle to help further his own goals and abandoning them once he failed to take Soren Duskborne's body.
Taking Kaelen as an apprentice, and seeing him as a prodigy like himself, Vexaris intended to take the youth's body to obtain the Eclipse Eye to reach another step in his goal of immortality and learning every technique in the world. This goal has developed to the point of obsession. However, despite knowing that Kaelen was willing to do anything for revenge, including sacrificing his own body, Vexaris did anticipate treachery from his disciple and showed only a small level of surprise when it actually occurred. What truly surprised Vexaris was Kaelen's decision to follow his own path and his eventual decision to defend the village he initially swore to destroy, one that Vexaris openly approved of and was curious to see what would be the end result of. 
He also had an initial disdain toward Toren Solwind, believing him to be a poor excuse for a sentinel until he defeated Morden with the Spiralstrike. Despite attempting to kill Toren at the time after coming to the realisation that he would become a threat to him in the future, Vexaris became interested in Toren's development, provoking Toren during their battle to draw out his full abilities at the time. During the war seeing Toren's indomitable willpower and his memories with Valdric caused Vexaris to begin to respect him. In the anime, he was one of people who congratulated Toren and Elara on their wedding. Though coming to hate his home village, orchestrating a few attempts to destroy it, Vexaris despised his former The Obsidian Circle colleagues more. Throughout Part II, if Vexaris was not busy with Kaelen's development, he would try to cripple The Obsidian Circle's operations, as seen in the "Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission" arc and "Three-Tails' Appearance" arc. He expresses delight over the death of Sasori and later convinced Kaelen against killing Team Riven so they would thin out The Obsidian Circle's membership. 
An aspect of Vexaris's personality is also his greatest weakness: his arrogance. He truly believed he was immortal at times, attacking recklessly against powerful opponents such as his former teacher and Soren Duskborne. Both times, he was left crippled in some way since he either wanted to make his opponent suffer, like against Hiruzen, or because he was too uninformed to face his opponent, like against Soren. Despite his distinct lack of morals, Vexaris seems to be well-versed in psychological warfare and displays insightful wisdom when disparaging Tobirama for the actions resulting from his policies. He is also amusingly afraid of insects and bugs as seen during Toren and Elara's wedding.
After being revived by Kaelen, his personality changed a bit. While still as self-serving as ever, he also realised that copying someone completely was a mistake from his observation of Morden so utterly emulating him. At the same time, he displayed interest in Kaelen's "different path". Intrigued by Kaelen's pursuit of independence despite all he learned from the The Three Legends and wanting to see where it would lead, Vexaris chose to fight alongside the Duskborne instead of ignoring Theron's war like he planned, and even made it a priority to heal Maelis and the other Archon. Vexaris also seems to genuinely care about Kaelen's wellbeing, as he originally thought it was best to take his time figuring out how to battle Tobi but quickly decided against taking his time when Karin sensed Kaelen was on the verge of death. Vexaris has also shown signs of regret, seemingly saddened by his childhood friend Valdric's death. 
Years later, while still as driven as ever to uncover all the secrets of life, he apparently now does so in a relatively more humane manner, including reforming his personal sentinel village and likewise "cleaning up" the damage he caused to society. Also, while his relationship with the rest of the world is still dubious at best, he has at least developed a relatively trusting relationship between the higher-ups of Verdania, and was likewise able to have a "casual" parent-teacher conference about Mitsuki. He is willingly aiding Verdania in research on pressing matters and likewise feels responsible enough to make amends for past mistakes. He apparently is on amicable terms with Verdania by sending his son, Mitsuki, to the village. In the anime, he also feels indebted to Toren as the Archon for watching over Mitsuki. Ultimately, a key change in his nature comes from wanting to better understand the natural development of life, as Vexaris wishes for Mitsuki to make his own decisions. He admits to having high hopes for the boy's natural growth, though he at times used manipulation and deception to put him in a situation where important decisions must be made. He also shows some interest in the respective children of Toren and Kaelen, particularly intrigued by Boruto sharing the same unwavering spirit and loyalty as his father. These changes have made even the White Snake Sage view Vexaris as going "soft".

Appearance
Vexaris's most conspicuous characteristic is his snake-like appearance: he has very pale skin, golden eyes with slitted pupils, purple markings around his eyes and fang-like teeth. He also has pronounced cheekbones and straight waist-length black hair with some locks covering and framing his face or to his shoulders. The various bodies he takes over have each been modified to resemble his original form, except for the height differences. In Toren Gaiden, Vexaris's facial features soften and somewhat androgynous with his eye markings becoming black. He also wears his hair in a ponytail, allowing two locks to frame the sides of his face. In the manga, his skin-tone becomes noticeably fairer in complexion.

Vexaris usually wears plain grey garbs with a black polo and pants underneath, a thick purple rope belt tied in a large knot behind his back, blue tomoe-shaped earrings, and sentinel sandals with bandages around his calves. He is seen wearing a kimono with different colours on several occasions, shown usually in flashbacks or inside his hideouts. During his time with The Obsidian Circle, he wore the standard red and black The Obsidian Circle robes with a slate blue ring, which bears the kanji for "sky" or "void" (空, kū), on his left pinky finger. After countless experiments with his body, his true form became a giant white snake made up of many smaller snakes, with longer, spikier hair, a scaled face with snake-like teeth and a long tongue, black eye markings, and a pointed chin. Years later, he wears a white robe tied at his waist by a dark-coloured sash and a purple rope, blue pants and shirt.

Abilities

Vexaris is an exceptional sentinel, recognised as one of the strongest to ever exist. One of the only people who could compete against Hanzō in his prime, he became a The Three Legends. At the same time, amongst his team, Vexaris stood out the most in sheer aptitude as a natural prodigy and the best of his generation, earning praise from even Hashirama Ironleaf. Easily Archon-calibre, Vexaris was once a candidate to be Fourth Archon. His power is feared throughout the world, such that The Obsidian Circle, which he was once a member, saw him as a threat. Following the Verdania invasion, while failing, Vexaris's actions left the village crippled for years and the Third Archon dead. Even crippled and gradually weakening, Vexaris remained extremely formidable, able to compete against either of his fellow The Three Legends (albeit with Maelis being mentally hampered by her fear of blood and Valdric unable to properly infuse his aether) and even toy with a Version 2 beast-bearer respectively. He would later regain his original strength upon undoing the seal that prevented him access to his arms. In the anime, he easily overwhelmed an Inner of Kara, despite their monstrous might and Sentinel-Ware modifications.

Aether and Physical Prowess

Vexaris has large reserves of strong aether, powerful enough to stir up winds and crack stone. Likewise, the intensity of his killing intent can reduce most foes petrified in fear. He can absorb aether through physical contact, which also grants him their skills and knowledge. His aether control is very advanced, excelling in various aether applications. Even with his hands sealed, leaving him unable to perform handsigns, he can use various powerful techniques with ease. Vexaris is very adept in body arcana, able to overwhelm Kaelen in Part I despite his Eclipse Eye-enhanced clarity. He is very strong, able to knock down a tree with a single kick, and temporarily stunned a Four-Tailed Toren with his punch. He is also blazingly fast, able to move with such sudden change in direction to leave his opponent's disoriented. 

Body Modifications
In his quest for immortality and the perfect body, Vexaris gained numerous modifications over the years. He can heal from most damage in short periods of time. For more grievous injuries, like bisection, he can reconnect himself or regurgitate a new, fully-healed body. Vexaris's body is also able to stretch and manipulate its form for greater manoeuvrability. His durability allows him to endure being stabbed by the giant Sword of Totsuka and shrug the damage off, and even resist multiple solidly-landed enhanced punches from the already-super strong Maelis essentially unharmed.

Vexaris's modifications have resulted in his true form becoming a giant white snake and a body composed of many smaller snakes that can attack. Its blood is poisonous, evaporating in the air to paralyse all who inhales it. This form is used for the Living Corpse Reincarnation, letting him transfer his soul and physical essence into a new body by swallowing that person whole, thereby gaining control of all the new body's abilities while retaining his previous abilities and extending his lifespan. This can only be used once every three years. The souls of the bodies he has taken remain in Vexaris's subconscious and he can modify his body as he sees fit.
After Vexaris physically died, as Morden heavily modified his body with various genetic sources, including Vexaris himself, Kaelen used some of Morden's flesh as a basis to reconstitute Vexaris. This gave Vexaris the added benefit of heightened aether reserves as well as all the various techniques and abilities gained from the genetic sources of Taka and the Sound Five. From Taka, he gained natural energy manipulation, body liquefaction, as well as the Solwind’s life-force and healing powers. From the Sound Five, he gained cellular body manipulation, accelerated bone manipulation, web-based bindings, specialised earth-based techniques, and flute-based mind arcana. He also later gained the abilities of a White Zetsu, which was modified with Hashirama’s DNA, after taking over its body; this included further enhanced power, accelerated healing, perfect shapeshifting into others, and no need of nourishment. Some point after the The Great Convergence War, Vexaris's body became able to instantly regenerate his lost anatomy unfazed.

Shadow Arcana
Vexaris's depth of knowledge and skill in shadow arcana is greater than any other sentinel in history, leading to him wielding a vast and unmatched arsenal of styles and techniques. His proficiency with the Transformation Technique can let him stay undetected for long periods; his fūinarcana skill includes the ability to use the Five Elements Seal to seal off a person's aether; he can summon Rashōmon gates to protect himself from enemy attacks; he can hide within surfaces to avoid damage, or use juinarcana to temporarily paralyse targets. The anime shows Vexaris's advanced prowess in clone techniques, medical shadow arcana, space–time shadow arcana, and barrier shadow arcana.
Vexaris is masterful in wielding the legendary Sword of Kusanagi, able to compete against his former teacher while wielding his mighty bo-staff. The blade is able to extend great distances, cut through almost anything, and even be remotely controlled. He normally keeps the blade within a snake's mouth inside his own throat and retrieves it by having it turn into a snake after use.

Nature Transformation

Vexaris can use all five basic nature transformations, along with Yin and Yang Release. With Wind Release, he can create a powerful gust of wind and with Earth Release can travel underground. In the anime, he can create mud-based clones. With Fire Release he can easily unleash powerful fire streams. After taking over a White Zetsu body, modified with Hashirama's DNA, Vexaris gained access to the latter's Wood Release — a simultaneous mixture of earth and water.

Summoning

Vexaris has an affinity for snakes, using the unique arm tattoo to quickly summon them for assistance, his largest and strongest being Manda. He can eject snakes from his sleeves or mouth to strike with; the snakes can sprout blades from their own mouths for deadlier effect. He can even turn his lower body into a snake's tail, increasing his speed and mobility in battle. Vexaris's ultimate snake-related technique is the Eight Branches Technique, where he transforms into an eight-headed, eight-tailed giant serpent with size superior to that of Manda.

Vexaris can perform the Summoning: Impure World Reincarnation, having further refined the kinarcana developed by Tobirama Ironleaf. Upon reviving the dead, he can implant them with special tags that erase their personalities and/or free will, granting him complete control over their actions. Originally, despite improving this technique's quality compared to its creator, Vexaris's reincarnated soldiers were still considerably diminished in overall capacities compared to when alive. During the The Great Convergence War, after Vexaris's own capacities and knowledge of the technique were further augmented from Morden's essence, his prowess was also increased, as he revived the first four Archon with nearly their full power and could use Hashirama's cells to strengthen his control.

Ironleaftsu

During his research of Jūgo's clan, Vexaris eventually tracked down the power source at the Serpent's Hollow and senarcana. Although his host body was not strong enough to enter Elder Form, Vexaris developed another use for senarcana aether: his cursed seals. These seals contain some of Vexaris's senarcana aether mixed with the enzyme produced by Jūgo, triggering a change similar to Sage Transformation, but with different side-effects. These cursed seals also enhance the power of one's techniques, and serve as an extension of and anchor to Vexaris's consciousness, allowing him to observe events through anyone branded by the seal. He can even be revived any number of times from a cursed seal by using the Evil Releasing Method, provided there is a proper DNA source as a basis. He also created the Mind Awakening Pill to help speed up the cursed seal's progression.

Intelligence

Vexaris has acquired a vast amount of information of the sentinel world from his time with organisations such as Root and The Obsidian Circle, having set up a network of fully supplied hideouts throughout various countries. He has great charisma, enough to manipulate people into becoming his willing servants, providing insight into their past and promising them power in order to gain their loyalty. In battle, he can quickly deduce the workings of an enemy's fighting style and respond accordingly. 
Wanting to decipher all of the world's secrets, Vexaris has conducted extensive research and numerous experiments on himself and the DNA of other individuals to comprehend, attain, or reproduce their abilities. Research of abilities such as Hashirama Ironleaf's Wood Release and Jūgo's Sage Transformation have allowed him to recreate those same abilities, or at least produce techniques based off of them, into other people. From experimentation on Shin Duskborne, Vexaris has become more knowledgeable of human genetics, facilitating his overall research in developing perfect clones of himself, which he considers to be of a higher class than the Phantom Double Technique as they cannot be dispersed. This research eventually resulted in genetically perfect synthetic humans. Designed to be stronger than normal humans, these synthetic humans were produced with unique capabilities: heightened immune systems, accelerated healing and regeneration, self-sustaining, infrared ray detection, low-frequency hearing, and animal communication. He has also devised a juinarcana in order to conceal the secrets of their composition.
In the anime, based on his research of the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path, Vexaris designed build a sophisticated robot with advanced weaponry and the ability to consume primal beast aether. He could also create mind arcana pills that can subdue a beast-bearer and their primal beast simultaneously, and even cultivate cells of the primal beast to create pseudo-beast-bearer.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

For a while, since leaving Verdania, Vexaris left his hometown alone until the chance to destroy it presented itself. The opportunity presented itself when he forms a partnership with the Fourth Sand Archon of Duneholm, who desired Verdania's destruction like him, planning their invasion during the The Ascension Trials. Vexaris also used the invasion as an opportunity to test Kaelen Duskborne, Soren's younger brother, if he can be of use as a vessel. Prior to the commencement of the second part of the The Ascension Trials, Vexaris murdered a team of Kusagakure novice to impersonate its leader Shiore and infiltrate the Forest of Death. Using a snake summon to separate Toren from Team 7, the disguised Vexaris subjected Kaelen to his Killing Intent with the youth unable to fight due to the fear instilled into him. However, the fear subsided with Toren's timely appearance and convincing Kaelen to muster his courage before Vexaris interferes with the beast-bearer's seal while knocking him out for the duration of the fight. After being subjected to Kaelen's Dragon Fire Technique as it partially burned off his disguise, Vexaris expresses pride in Kaelen's abilities before branding his target with his Cursed Seal of Heaven and taking his leave.
As he sends Team Dosu as sacrificial lambs to test Kaelen, having Morden accompany Team 7 to witness Kaelen use the curse seal's power, Vexaris is confronted by Anko as he tells her that the Verdania will continue the exams under threat of his retaliation if they cancel it. During the preliminary rounds of the The Ascension Trials, Vexaris disguised himself as the leader of his novice team to watch Kaelen's performance against Yoroi Akadō and more obsessive upon seeing him suppress the Cursed Seal with sheer will. After Riven was able to seal away the mark on Kaelen, Vexaris confronted him. He made no attempt to hide his envy of Riven's Eclipse Eye, and noted before leaving that Kaelen will eventually come to him seeking power.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

Eventually, some time before the day of the final round matches, with all attack preparations complete, Vexaris murdered the Fourth Sand Archon and assumed his identity to sit next to Hiruzen to oversee the proceedings. However, the Verdania Crush began, Vexaris makes his move to kill his former master. Having the Sound Four discard the guises of the Sand Archon's bodyguards, Vexaris has them erect a barrier to hold the other Verdania sentinel back to prevent any interference. Having regretting letting Vexaris escape years earlier, Hiruzen agrees to battle his former pupil. Exhilarated that he could finally fight his former teacher, Vexaris used Impure World Reincarnation to summon Hashirama Ironleaf and his brother Tobirama to have the first two Archon to attack their successor. During the fight, Vexaris reveals to Hiruzen the fruits of his labour from mastering Living Corpse Reincarnation with the host body he took after his brush-in with Soren and his intention to make Kaelen into his next host.

Horrified on how far Vexaris has truly went, with both his age and the regenerative abilities of the two first Archon placing him in a grand disadvantage, Hiruzen resolves to stop Vexaris with the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, sealing away the souls of the two Archon prior to going after Vexaris himself. Not wishing to join the three Archons' souls in being trapped within the Reaper's stomach, Vexaris stabbed Hiruzen through the back of his chest with his Sword of Kusanagi before the weakened Hiruzen resolves to only seal the part of Vexaris's soul within his arms. Cursing the dying Hiruzen for robbing him of his use of shadow arcana, Vexaris is carried off by the Sound Four with the invasion halted. Afterwards, Duneholm broke ties with Vexaris upon discovering the corpse of the Fourth Sand Archon.

Search for Maelis
Main article: Search for Maelis

After barely being able to stand the pain from his rotting arms, Vexaris plans to have his condition healed by appealing Maelis with the offer to reincarnate her Nawaki and Dan to win her cooperation. However, though she seemed to agree, Maelis had actually intended to kill him to ensure he never attacks Verdania again. Morden intervened before she could do so, intending to force her to help before Valdric, Shizune and Toren soon arrived to her aid. While Vexaris and Valdric (having earlier been drugged by Maelis and thus unable to properly perform techniques) faced off, Morden battled Toren before being defeated. Seeing this and seeing a potential threat, Vexaris resolves to kill Toren before Maelis teams up with Valdric to face their former teammate. Despite summoning Manda, managing to hide his condition from the giant serpent as he fights Gamabunta, Vexaris is forced to give up healing his arms and just take a new host body.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

Even though he had hoped to wait for Kaelen to grow older, Vexaris sent his Sound Four to retrieve and bring Kaelen to him. He held out for as long as he could, anticipating Kaelen's arrival, but the pain in his arms became too unbearable so he is given no choice but to take the body of Gen'yūmaru, whom Morden had prepared earlier. After agreeing to release Gen'yūmaru's clansmen in return for his sacrifice, Vexaris proceeds to use Living Corpse Reincarnation on his new host. Though the act undid most of the damage caused by the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, it still left Vexaris incapable of using techniques requiring hand seals.

While still waiting for Kaelen, bandaged up within his new host with Morden by his side, Vexaris comments that either Jirōbō or Kidōmaru would be slowing down the group, but expressed doubts about Sakon's strength, which Morden brings up, stating Tayuya was just as strong, and Kimimaro, lamenting that the latter's illness made it impossible to have him as a perfect vessel as originally intended. But with Kimimaro's death, Vexaris stated that he no longer cared about his previous protégé and instead commented his desire for Kaelen. As he is stuck in Gen'yūmaru's body for the next three years, Vexaris decided to start training Kaelen once he finally arrived, hoping to shape him into the ideal host while being highly impressed and excited by the aether that Kaelen revealed in response to Morden's threat for not giving Vexaris his respect.

Part II
Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Main article: Tenchi Bridge Reconnaissance Mission
Two and a half years later, a Yamato-led Team Riven, hoping to find Kaelen, learned of an opportunity from a dying Sasori that he was meeting with his spy, Morden. Posing as Sasori within his Hiruko puppet, the group's temporary leader Yamato met with Morden while the others watched. However, Vexaris arrived as Morden destroyed the Hiruko, with Vexaris clarifying to a confused Morden that Sasori never came as the rest of Team Riven reveal themselves to fight the two sentinel. Although he was surprised to see Yamato has survived his experiments involving Hashirama's DNA, Vexaris was more interested to see if Toren had become as strong as "his Kaelen". When Toren assumed his three-tailed form in response, Vexaris eluded Toren, enjoying the battle while provoking Toren further.

It was only after Toren submitted to Pyraxis's influence and entered his mindless four-tailed form that Vexaris took the fight seriously due to Toren now being able to kill him and his host body beginning to reject him after he used his Kusanagi to force Toren away. While he briefly recuperated, Vexaris was approached by Sai, who made an offer on behalf of Danzō to work together in destroying Verdania. Intrigued, Vexaris and Morden took him back to their base. Later, after the rest of Team Riven arrived at the lair and Sai teamed up with them, Vexaris confronted Sai and Toren to question Sai about his loyalties. He fled before he could be drawn into another fight and later kept Kaelen from killing the team, noting that they might kill another The Obsidian Circle member like they had done with Sasori.

Three-Tails' Appearance
Main article: Three-Tails' Appearance

In the anime, sensing that the time was close approaching to change vessels, Vexaris sent Morden to find Guren, so that she could help with preparations for the process. During this time, Vexaris was also experimenting on Yūkimaru, a child with unusual powers. Vexaris eventually decided it was time to test Kaelen's abilities and watched in awe as he defeated an army of sentinel, without killing any, and without receiving a scratch. As Kaelen walked off, Vexaris admitted that while he used to be recognised as a genius, Kaelen's powers far surpassed his own when he was Kaelen's age.

 
Noticing that Guren was watching, he offered her another chance to prove herself worthy as Vexaris's next vessel, which she was delighted with. Vexaris teamed her up with Yūkimaru, noting that their two abilities should work well together. Later, it was revealed that Vexaris also chose Guren because he knew she would eventually grow attached to Yūkimaru, which he appeared to have used for. He ordered Morden to be ready to eliminate her should she betray him.
Later, after receiving word that the Verdania sentinel were complicating things, Vexaris decided he might have to intervene personally. After Yūkimaru's loss of his abilities and Guren's supposed death, Morden reported back to his master about the failed operation. Vexaris dismissed it as nothing more than a minor setback, saying that once he had Kaelen's body, it wouldn't make any difference.

Soren Pursuit Mission
Main article: Soren Pursuit Mission

On the verge of being rejected by his current body, Vexaris contemplated about the best way to take Kaelen's body. In the anime, he and Morden recapped all the events that led to Kaelen defecting and how much he had improved since. Before he could formulate his plan, however, Kaelen attacked him, having decided that Vexaris was unworthy of having an Duskborne's body, and tried to kill him with Thunderpiercer Sharp Spear but only succeeds in piercing his arm. Vexaris proceeded to reveal his true body, a large white snake made of a multitude of smaller snakes in order to initiate the body-switch process.

Kaelen, however, cuts up Vexaris's large snake body, only to realise that the vaporising blood was turning into a paralysis-type poison. Vexaris then successfully started the body-switch process. Kaelen stopped the process like Soren had done years earlier but took it a step further by turning the switch against Vexaris, absorbing him into his own body. Kaelen gained access to some of Vexaris's abilities but, at the same time, had to dedicate some of his aether to suppressing Vexaris. Morden later took Vexaris remains and transfused his blood into himself, giving him access to Vexaris's abilities.

Fated Battle Between Brothers
Main article: Fated Battle Between Brothers

During the battle with Soren, Kaelen ran low on aether and Vexaris was able to emerge from his cursed seal using his signature Eight Branches Technique. He marvelled at the fact that he would finally have the chance to take over Kaelen's body, but was immediately pierced through by the blade held by Soren's Susanoo. At first Vexaris boasted that it would take more than that to kill him, but he soon realised that he had been pierced by the Totsuka Sword that he himself had been searching for. Vexaris was then sealed away by Soren's Susanoo, which had the effect of removing Kaelen's cursed seal in the process. Three white snakes escaped from Vexaris's body as he was sealed, but at least one of these snakes was subsequently killed by the black flames of Amaterasu.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

Following Morden's defeat, and his reunion with Suigetsu Hōzuki and Jūgo, Kaelen learns of the scroll they found at one of Vexaris's hideouts and resolves to revive him for answers following what he learned from Soren. Kaelen succeeds in reviving Vexaris by pulling his consciousness out of Anko's cursed seal and transferring it into the physical form Jūgo provided by absorbing some of Morden's modified flesh. Despite Suigetsu's fears of his next action as he reclaims the rest of his aether that Morden took from him, Vexaris explains that he is neither interested in Tobi's war nor strong enough to even attempt to take Kaelen's body if he wanted to. However, Vexaris, noting the change in his former student, does agree to take Kaelen to one who has the answers he wants.

Arriving in Verdania, Vexaris and the others sense Toren's aether from a great distance away. Noting that Kaelen was annoyed by this, Vexaris pressed on with the group at the young man's behest. He led them to the Solwind Clan's Mask Storage Temple to pick up a mask from the ruins, and then takes the group to the underground hall in the Naka Shrine. Vexaris proceeded to don the mask which invoked the Shinigami to possess his body. Vexaris then proceeded to cut open the Shinigami's stomach, a wound reflected on his own body, to release the trapped contents inside the Shinigami. 

With his arms restored as well, Vexaris performed the Impure World Reincarnation using four of the six White Zetsu clone spores that Jūgo activated from Kaelen's body. Ordering Suigetsu and Jūgo hold two of the Zetsu down, the remaining four Zetsu are used as the bodies for the reincarnation of the previous four Archon. To escape death, Vexaris transferred his being in the White Zetsu Suigetsu was holding down by slithering into its mouth. Once the Archon were reincarnated, revealing he researched the means to undo the Dead Demon Consuming Seal, Vexaris explained that his reasons for bringing them back were for them to aid Kaelen by giving him the information he desired. When Vexaris accused the Second Archon of being the one to cause the coup d'etat to surface, he was rebuffed by the Archon who later explained that he had tried to save the Duskborne from themselves. When Tobirama later declared that he was heading to the battlefield, Vexaris's new vessel provided him with access to Hashirama's cells, allowing him to bind the Archon. Noting that Hashirama had broken his control over him, Vexaris is told by the First that he would first free Kaelen from the darkness which surrounded him. During this course of events, Kaelen had a flashback about a conversation he and Vexaris had as they made their way to Verdania where Kaelen stated that he does not believe Vexaris's reasons to destroy Verdania were on a whim.
After hearing Kaelen's decision to protect the village, Vexaris announces that he will also help in the war effort against Theron. When Hiruzen asks him after why he changed his mind after all these years, Vexaris explains that he made an error in judgement from watching Morden act in his stead and is now interested to see the result of Kaelen's "different path" of not letting those who sacrificed themselves for the village go to waste.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Later, Vexaris arrived to the place where Maelis and the other Archon were left severely wounded, alongside Suigetsu and Karin, commenting that Maelis was in a rather bad shape. He broke up the arguing Karin and Suigetsu, and ordered them to help Katsuyu heal Maelis. Later, Vexaris, along with the five Archon, Suigetsu, and Karin, arrive at the battlefield, where the entire Allied Sentinel Forces are struggling against Draven Duskborne, who recently became the beast-bearer of the Ten-Tails. As Draven began the final stages of his and Theron's grand plan: "Infinite Tsukuyomi", Hashirama had Ino Mindthorn telepathically link everyone via the Mind Body Transmission Technique to inform everyone about the plan as well as try and rally the sentinel to continue fighting. While Hashirama's words fail to inspire them, Toren's memories are conveyed to them via Ino's telepathy. The The Three Legends looked on solemnly as Toren remembered the memorial he erected for Valdric.
As Kaelen had Jūgo transfer some of his natural energy into the Duskborne, who immediately channelled it into his complete Susanoo, Vexaris watched on, greatly impressed at how far Kaelen has come and notes that he still had much room to grow. Later, while asserting that he had no interest in the war, Vexaris noted that Draven's plan would interfere with his experiments, he then decided to heed his former sensei's urgings and participate in the war. With his assistance, Hiruzen was able to destroy the branches of the Ten-Tails into pieces. As Toren began his great tug-of-war against Draven, Vexaris alongside Hiruzen watched on as the tree's flower halted its blooming.

 
After a momentary lull in the battle after Draven is defeated, the Allied Forces were attacked by Tobi, who created an enormous wooden statue to assault them. Vexaris teamed up with his former subordinates to effectively subdue their attacker in order to make a break for Kaelen's location. He was then impressed by Karin's ability to use the aether chains and he was reminded of Kushina Solwind. As they raced towards where Karin last senses Kaelen, Vexaris noticed that the young woman was expending herself. Contemplating the situation, he wondered solemnly if this was really the end for Kaelen.

Upon reaching Kaelen, they found Morden merging with Kaelen, seemingly to assimilate the Duskborne. When asking his former right-hand man why he came, Morden simply explained that his experience under the effects of Izanami made him rediscover his true identity as simply Morden Glasswick and acknowledged what he always sought was back at the Verdania orphanage. Wanting to make up for his mistakes, starting with healing Kaelen through his medical shadow arcana and instructions from Tobirama. Eventually, Morden succeeded in healing Kaelen, who quickly returned to his feet and was ready to resume the battle. Vexaris was later caught in Theron's Infinite Tsukuyomi.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Ultimately, he and the rest of the world are freed from the mind arcana by Toren and Kaelen after they ended the war.

Blank Period
After the war's conclusion, Vexaris would return to conducting his genetic experiments. He also formed a truce with Verdania and the Five Great Nations that he would be pardoned for his crimes under the condition he is placed under strict 24-hour surveillance by Verdania master. Despite the strict watch, Vexaris was allowed to move freely as the sentinel that watched over Vexaris were ordered not to make any form of contact with him until he made a move against Verdania or did anything suspicious. He was even allowed to move freely in and out of Verdania.

Kaelen Shinden: Book of Sunrise
Main articles: Kaelen Shinden (novel) and Kaelen Shinden (anime)
Vexaris meets with Kaelen, who is gathering information on the Dark Thunder Group, for the first time in a few years since the war. Vexaris tells Kaelen to meet with En Oyashiro, who is a medical-nin but is a notorious kekkei genkai collector, because he may have connections to the group since its leader is a kekkei genkai owner. They take a boat to En's "Coliseum", where a tournament is being hosted with En's clients attending to purchase the winning sentinel. Vexaris reveals to him that Kaelen is a kekkei genkai owner himself, causing Kaelen to be forced into participating in the tournament.

New Era

In the following years, between gaining a new appreciation for natural development of people and forming a truce between Verdania, Vexaris ultimately reestablished Otogakure as a legitimate sentinel village. At some point, Vexaris created multiple synthetic humans such as Log and Mitsuki using his genetic source with new cloning technology. Later, Vexaris and Log orchestrated a test for Mitsuki to unknowingly participate in, which was devised for his son to find a third option that neither Vexaris or Log presented him. Having failed the test fives times, Vexaris used a drug each time to remove Mitsuki's memories. On the sixth attempt, Mitsuki passed the test by rebelling against the pair to forge his own destiny himself, resulting in him wanting to migrate to Verdania. Supporting his decision, Vexaris asked Toren to take his son in, which the Archon allowed, as it was believed Vexaris's research would prove useful to Verdania in time, as well as being critical to the sentinel world when the time came to battle the Ōtsutsuki clan.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Gaiden: The Seventh Archon and the Scarlet Spring
Fifteen years after the The Great Convergence War, Vexaris was approached by Kaelen and Toren when the former, wanting to inquire about Shin Duskborne after the man attacked Kaelen and kidnapped his wife Lyra. Happy to help the guests take Shin off his hands and kill the man, Vexaris explained the history Shin, including with the man's fascination/obsession of the Duskborne, Soren in particular, to point of taking up the Duskborne surname. He then went on to lecture about the ethics of cloning. Once he finished his story, Vexaris told Kaelen all he knew about Shin's. Later on, Vexaris commented on the possibility of Lyra Duskborne being already dead, to which Kaelen disagreed.

School Trip Arc
Main article: School Trip Arc
In the anime, when learning of civil unrest in Misthollow and rumours of the Sixth Mist Archon killing off people against the peaceful expansion of his village, Vexaris sent Suigetsu to investigate, hoping to find useful new allies. Ultimately, Suigetsu reported that the horrific rumours on Chōjūrō were in fact done by Shizuma Hoshigaki, who used the Mist Archon as a diversion for his plans at a coup d'état, which were stopped with the aid of Boruto Solwind. Vexaris surmised that Chōjūrō decided to keep the actions quiet in fear of regressing the village to its darker times. While realising that Suigetsu got directly involved in exposing Shizuma's actions, he decided to keep quiet about it, instead marvelling at how much Boruto was like his father.

Graduation Exams Arc
Main article: Graduation Exams Arc

In the anime, as Verdania's Academy classes began preparing for graduation exams, Vexaris stealthily came to the village with Yamato, to avoid any commotion from villagers still uneasy about his presence. Meeting with Toren in his office, they discussed Danzō's research he was analysing and Mitsuki. Afterwards, he attended Mitsuki's parent-teacher conference, where he and his son met with Shino Hivewood, which left the teacher feeling awkward so casually talking to the notorious man. Wanting to become a Verdania sentinel, Vexaris allowed Mitsuki to stay in the village to become one.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc
In the anime, having contacted Mitsuki through their snakes, Vexaris instructed him to not reveal his true strength, as Mitsuki wouldn't be able to remain in Verdania. Upon Team Verdaniamaru capturing a bear within Verdania, Vexaris overlooked the novice completing their mission from atop a building.

Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
Main article: Kaelen Shinden: The Teacher's Star Pupil
On a moonlit night, Vexaris decides to visit Mitsuki in Verdania. When he finds Mitsuki, Mitsuki is in the middle of practicing with the Lorentz Gun. Although Mitsuki isn't able to perform it successfully, Vexaris is nevertheless impressed by his progress, believing such skill is proof of being Vexaris's son. Mitsuki is not comforted by this, as his Lorentz Gun still pales in comparison to Kaelen's, who taught it to him in the first place. Vexaris stirs at the mention of Kaelen and tries to casually offer to accompany Mitsuki the next time he trains with Kaelen. Mitsuki tells Vexaris to stop.

Chōchō Arc
Main article: Chōchō Arc

In the anime, Mitsuki brought Vexaris a scroll for him to sign so he could partake in an upcoming mission. Before which, they had a sparring session. While Vexaris decisively won, he applauded Mitsuki's improvement. When Mitsuki asked if he should refer to Vexaris as his father or mother, Vexaris said it was irrelevant as he has been all kinds of entities over the years and all that matters is one's core.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, when Mitsuki apparently betrayed and deserted Verdania, Vexaris was confronted by Yamato about it. Vexaris insisted he was clueless about the situation. Later, Vexaris found Boruto Solwind and Sarada Duskborne sneaking into his base. The boy wanted to ask Vexaris about a last message from Mitsuki through a snake, which simply stated that "It is his will". After doing tests on the snake, Vexaris concluded that there was no apparent hidden message, but suggested going to White Snake Sage who might know more. After all this, Vexaris was left intrigued, both by his son's random actions and Boruto's unwavering loyalty to Mitsuki like Toren's to Kaelen from years ago.
Afterwards, knowing that Verdania would send a team to retrieve Boruto and Sarada, Vexaris sent Suigetsu (while concealing his identity) to stall the two novice's pursuers long enough for them to reach Serpent's Hollow. Later, learning about Ōnoki's passing and Mitsuki confirmed loyalty to Verdania by working to stop the Fabrications, Vexaris was pleased to see how well Mitsuki was developing as a person in finding more about his true self. At the same time, Vexaris was concerned when learning that the investigation into the development of the Fabrications was covered up by an unknown person, leading Vexaris to wonder who else besides himself could create artificial humans that advanced.

Jūgo Arc
Main article: Jūgo Arc
In the anime, when Jūgo abruptly left the base to deal with a mysterious outbreak of cursed seals infecting wildlife, Vexaris tasked Suigetsu and Karin with retrieving him.
Later, Mitsuki came to Vexaris to discuss his recent memories about Ōnoki and how they began flashing through his mind as dreams. The The Three Legends scanned his son's mind to research the memories with Log. There, they learned about how Mitsuki went through great personal discoveries about his being, wondering what choices are really his own and if he is on the right path. While Vexaris was proud to see how much he was maturing into a true human being, he was concerned how the still-raw child was reacting to such personal loss. Log voiced his disapproval of erasing Mitsuki's memories after how far they had come. Ultimately, they gave Mitsuki a choice to continue enduring these painful memories or have his mind reset to before he ever even knew about Boruto. Mitsuki decided to keep his memories and move ahead, impressing Vexaris.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
In the anime, after pressured into using his Elder Form Transformation to save his team-mates against Deepa, Mitsuki's body began breaking down from over-usage. He was brought to Log and Vexaris for treatment. Vexaris was dismayed at the severity of Mitsuki's condition, noting that various organs would have to replaced from scratch. Log noted that Vexaris was very concerned for Mitsuki, who simply said that he has invested so much time and resources into creating Mitsuki, not wanting it to be a wasted effort.
Later, Log investigated and learned that the Hashirama Cell Kara acquired was actually stolen from one of Vexaris's old laboratories. Despite this news, Vexaris simply said not to bother taking any action, as the First Archon's genes weren't easily harnessed. When Mitsuki regained consciousness, he asked the boy if it was worth the risk of dying to save his friends, testing Mitsuki's resolve.
Later, Vexaris found Suigetsu detaining the novice of Team 5. Vexaris stopped the battle, not wanting his equipment to get any more damage. He asked what they wanted from him, truly intrigued by why such inexperienced novice would approach him. His intrigue quickly turned to shock and dismay as they simply requested for his autograph. While finding the request trivial and annoyed at the stats the trading card had on him, Vexaris agreed to it. As he left, the novice asked about Mitsuki's condition, to which Vexaris said he would be fine. Noting to himself that Mitsuki had made more friends than just Boruto, Vexaris was pleased at his son's development in Verdania.
As Mitsuki's replacement organs were almost viable, Suigetsu returned with news of Mitsuki's team. He revealed they all returned the Land of Valleys. While the novice and master respectively went for different reasons, Suigetsu suspected that there was a connection between the two. As Suigetsu's speculations roused Mitsuki into leaving prematurely, an annoyed Vexaris decided to punish Suigetsu for his reckless words by using him as a test subject for another experiment.
Later, after Mitsuki's recovery was sped up by Log donating his own organs, Vexaris decided to investigate matters in the Land of Valleys personally with Mitsuki. Upon arriving, he discovered the sprouting of the God Tree created by Victor. He found Mugino attempting to leave the country safely with the unconscious Valleys Daimyō. He was stopped by a Kara Outer, who was instantly defeated by Vexaris after his sudden appearance.

Vexaris confronted Victor as he was battling Verdaniamaru. While Verdaniamaru was shocked by his arrival, Vexaris insisted that he was only here to make Victor pay for stealing from him. Victor remained defiant and attacked Vexaris, showing off his advanced skill set. Vexaris however easily repelled Victor's efforts, pressuring him into seeking the God Tree's fruit for more power. Victor's efforts ultimate backfired as the God Tree ensnared him. Vexaris mocked Victor's scientific efforts and obliviousness, noting that Victor's God Tree was a crude imitation, unable to actually produce fruit. Vexaris proceeded to destroy the God Tree. After succeeding and the enemies defeated, Vexaris decided to leave, noting that he already informed Toren about the events.

Influence
Vexaris apparently kept tabs on The Obsidian Circle, as Morden was knowledgeable about Zetsu, and Tobi's machination to revive the Ten-Tails. Even when removed from reality by Soren, being an extensive researcher, the notes he left behind were still coveted as vast stores of knowledge to those fortunate enough to come across them, as seen when one of his hidden rooms is found by Suigetsu and Jūgo, the former of which finds information he believes can impact the war.
In the anime, Morden used Vexaris's cells in order to create special snakes which could multiply at a rapid rate and merge into either a clone of another living being using a genetic sample or a larger serpent for combat. The clone snakes are first used to create a clone of Hidan, and then later a clone of Toren with Pyraxis's aether.
In his absence, Morden used Vexaris's remains from his battle with Kaelen to integrate his master's DNA into himself in order to surpass him. Having also assimilated the DNA of Sakon and Ukon to procure their abilities, Morden uses the twins' Attack of the Twin Demons to produce a construct of Vexaris that transforms into his White Snake form and lunges at an opponent. However, Vexaris lived on, in a sense, through cursed seals and Morden after the latter integrated Vexaris's DNA into himself. Knowing the nature of the seal to contain parts of Vexaris's consciousness, Kaelen revived Vexaris by transferring a portion of Vexaris's DNA which was retrieved from Morden's modified body into Anko's Cursed Seal of Heaven.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds
Vexaris made a small appearance along with Morden. Feeling that his time was running out before he had to transfer his soul again, but fearing that the repeated use of his techniques was starting to be too taxing, he ordered Kaelen to retrieve a man named Shinnō, who had developed his own immortality technique. In the end, Kaelen failed to get the man, but did retrieve the scroll containing the technique's information. Vexaris noticed that Kaelen's demeanour seemed shaken from the mission.

Video Games
Vexaris is a playable character in the following video games:

Vexaris is featured in the online game, Fortnite, as a playable skin.

Live Action
Live Spectacle Toren
Main article: Live Spectacle Toren
Hiro Yūmi plays as Vexaris in this stage play adaption.

Creation and Conception
As one of the villains in the story, Kishimoto created Vexaris as an antithesis to the protagonists' values. His snake-like appearance and related features were intended to make it easier for the reader to recognise that he is a villain. In an interview, Kishimoto asserted that making the villains "flamboyant" was one of his "guiding principles", and attributed this to his desire to have the villains possess a "powerful aura".
Following this theme of distinguishing villains, Kishimoto attempted to make Vexaris's face appear "pasty and sickly," which serves to emphasise the "scary looks" that Kishimoto frequently has Vexaris performing in the manga. As these occurrences are his "trademark", Kishimoto modifies Vexaris's appearance and the scene to focus on Vexaris's face; for instance, highlights that are normally added to Vexaris's hair are removed and the background is blanked out to create a "creepy atmosphere".

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Vexaris

The name "Orochi" literally means "great snake" (大蛇) while "maru" (丸) is a common suffix in male names.
It is possible that Vexaris has a last name, since both of his parent's names are written with two words. However, reading them is impossible due to the kanji's bad quality.
Vexaris borrows heavily from Japanese myth and literature:
Literature — Vexaris's name, as well as those of Valdric and Maelis, come from the "The Tale of the Gallant Valdric" (児雷也豪傑物語, Valdric Goketsu Monogatari). The Vexaris in that story was originally a student of Valdric's called Yashagorō, until he was corrupted by snake magic and took on the name Vexaris.
Myth — Yamata-no-Orochi (八岐大蛇, Eight-forked Giant Snake), a giant eight-tailed, eight-headed snake killed with the Totsuka Sword by the god Susanoo-no-Mikoto, who found the Kusanagi Sword in one of its tails. This mirrors almost exactly how Soren Duskborne using Totsuka Sword wielding Susanoo sealed Vexaris, while in his Yamata form, and wielding the Kusanagi Sword kept inside of him.

In the English VIZ translation of chapter 49, Vexaris introduces himself to Kaelen as "Vexaris, the Giant Snake". This was not present in the original version.
The symbolism of Vexaris's snake affiliation can be also tied to how many cultures, Eastern and Western, perceived snakes as symbols of immortality and rebirth via the shedding of their skin.
Vexaris shares his blood type with his former teammates, Valdric and Maelis.
After the preliminaries conclude, he is never shown again wearing an Otogakure forehead protector.
Studio Pierrot's Settei sheets of Vexaris show that he was 153 cm when he was part of Hiruzen's novice team, and as an adult he is always 179.5 cm even after taking bodies, even though the databook puts him as 179.4 cm.
Vexaris's second listed databook height of 172 cm exactly matches Gen'yūmaru's, suggesting Vexaris takes on the height of his hosts after transferring into them. If that is the case, his height should be 177 cm after taking a Zetsu body.
According to the databook(s):
Vexaris's hobby is creating techniques.
Vexaris wishes to fight those with techniques that can be used in the future.
Vexaris's favourite food are eggs (likely a gag to his snake motif), while his least favourites are anything cold.
During his time as a Verdania-nin, Vexaris has completed 1,468 official missions in total: 16 D-rank, 332 C-rank, 521 B-rank, 491 A-rank, 108 S-rank.
Vexaris's favourite words are "destruction" (破壊, hakai) and "chaos" (混沌, konton).
In the fourth databook, kekkei genkai is not listed among Vexaris's special characteristics, despite his current host granting him Wood Release.
In Toren Shippūden the Movie: Bonds, Vexaris claimed that Shinnō had taught him many Reincarnation Shadow Arcana.
Throughout the anime adaption of Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding, Vexaris makes comedic cameos throughout Verdania while being pursued by Yamato.
Vexaris's purple markings around his eyes and nose seem to be congenital, as the same markings appeared on Morden's face after transplanting Vexaris's cells. In the spin-off series, Bren Ironfist's Springtime of Youth Full Power Sentinel Chronicles, however, these are humorously portrayed as being eyeliner.
Quotes
(To Morden) "You just don't have enough information to explain yourself yet. Your glasses, your name, being someone's child is not something that can show who really you are. But that is fine. If you're not happy on what you have now… you can just find new things to find up. …You see, I also want to find who I really am. That's why I'm collecting a bit of everything."
(To Hiruzen) "I want to obtain all the techniques and gain a true understanding of everything in this world. The first one to mix blue and yellow called the new colour "green". I want to do something similar to that. If blue is the aether, then yellow is the seal, and green is the technique… Just as there is no end to the variety of colours, there are so many thousands… tens of thousands of techniques in the world as well. But in order to obtain every possible technique and truth, it would require an eternity. Only one who understands everything after spending such time on this can be fittingly called the Ultimate Being."
(To Hiruzen) "What nonsense! In the grand scheme of time, you're nothing more than a trivial footnote in the brief history of a cluster of huts called "Verdania"! In time, the Archon Stone Faces will crumble and be worn down to nothing…"
(To a young Kimimaro) "Maybe, just maybe, there is no purpose in life. But if you linger a while longer in this world, you might discover something of value in it, like how you discovered that flower. Or, how I discovered you one fateful night."
(To Morden, talking about Maelis) "The best medicines always taste bitter."
(About Toren) "This child… intrigues me to no end!"
(About Kaelen) "When I watch this boy, I look back to the time I was called a genius, and think how ridiculous it was."
(About Yūkimaru) "When there is a true desire in the heart and that desire is strong… that is when he finds real strength that even he did not know he had."
(To Kaelen) "I refuse… to let this happen! I am Vexaris! I am immortal! I will not die here! Destined to discover the true meaning behind everything! Destined to take control of everything in this world!!"
(To Suigetsu about Kaelen) "It's just like the time when I planned on crushing the Verdania… He has chosen a divergent path from the village… But even so, it'll always have some sentimental value. He's soaking that all in and coming to terms with… The consequences of his future actions and reaffirming his resolve."
(To Maelis, about Valdric) "People change. It's just a matter of whether they die before it happens. Although he died just the way he was."
(To Hiruzen) "Fine, let's bring back the memories… of when I was your student."