Zephros (我愛羅) is a sentinel of Duneholm and the youngest of the Three Sand Siblings. He was made the beast-bearer of the One-Tailed Shukaku before he was born, causing the villagers of Suna to fear him as a monster. With nobody to connect to, Zephros grew up hating the world and looking out only for himself, giving his life meaning by killing anyone he came across. After being defeated by Toren Solwind — a beast-bearer like himself who found strength in his friendships — Zephros began emulating him. He later became Suna's Fifth Sand Archon (五代目風影, Godaime Sand Archon, literally meaning: Fifth Wind Shadow) so that he can protect the village and all those who live there, dispelling the fears he cast on the villagers.

Background

Because of heavy cuts to Duneholm's budget by the Wind Daimyō, the Fourth Sand Archon wanted to make one of his children the beast-bearer of the primal beast Shukaku to serve as a weapon for the village. His first two children, Temari and then Kankurō, had not been compatible with Shukaku. Rasa's third child, however, Zephros, was compatible with Shukaku. For that reason, Shukaku was sealed inside of Zephros by Chiyo before he was even born, when Zephros was still a fetus inside of his mother Karura's womb. Zephros ended up being born prematurely and tiny. From the ordeals of childbirth, his mother, Karura, died. Before dying, Karura looked lovingly at Zephros's small form and vowed to always protect him.
Zephros was raised in isolation during his early life, taught shadow arcana by his father and cared for by his maternal uncle, Yashamaru. When he was allowed to roam around the village, Zephros would try to connect with the villagers, being kind to them and offering them any assistance he could. However, being a beast-bearer made the villagers frightened of Zephros; adults avoided him and, when they couldn't, treated him delicately while children would run from him on sight. Zephros would try to assure them he meant no harm, but in the process would inadvertently injure or even kill them with his sand. Zephros did not understand this pain he caused others because his sand protected him from all injury. When he was six years old, Zephros asked Yashamaru to explain pain to him. From Yashamaru's explanation, Zephros believed he did know pain: the unbearable agony in his heart.
From this, Yashamaru elaborated that physical pain, what causes one to bleed, could be cured with medicine and time, whereas pain of the heart, like Zephros experienced, could only be cured with love. Zephros, said Yashamaru, received love everyday, from both his mother - whose spirit controlled the sand that protected him - and from Yashamaru himself. Zephros was pleased by this and went out into the village to show some love to those he'd harmed, but his efforts were met only with more fear and hate. Zephros was dismayed and went off to try and understand why he was treated as such a monster. While doing so, he was attacked by one of Suna's Anbu, whom he fatally wounded with his sand. When he unmasked the Anbu, Zephros discovered it was Yashamaru.
Zephros was devastated that Yashamaru, the only living person to love him, would try to kill him and asked for an explanation. Yashamaru replied that it was a mission given to him by Rasa, Zephros's father, it having been decided by the Suna Council that Zephros was a failed experiment that, if allowed to live, would only continue to do harm to the village and its people. Zephros tried to find solace in the fact that Yashamaru had been ordered to kill him, but Yashamaru insisted, lying to Zephros that he volunteered and that he'd always hated Zephros for causing Karura's death. Karura had not loved Zephros either, and named him after the phrase "a self-loving carnage" (我を愛する修羅, Ware o aisuru shura) so that he would be a curse upon Suna for what it had done to her. With his explanation done, Yashamaru asked Zephros to "please die" before blowing himself up with explosive tags.

Zephros's sand - a product of Shukaku rather than Karura if Yashamaru's words were to be believed - shielded Zephros from the blast. Having lost everything he cared for, Zephros decided that he would from that point forward live up to his namesake by loving only himself; to that end, he used his sand to etch the kanji for "love" (愛, ai) onto the left side of his forehead. Overwhelmed with grief, Zephros transformed into Shukaku and attacked Suna, which Rasa stopped with his gold dust. Rasa would arrange five other assassination attempts on Zephros over the following years, all of which Zephros evidently survived. Due to his singular focus on himself, Zephros eventually learned to reign in his powers and became the lethal weapon of destruction Suna wanted him to be, prompting Rasa to stop trying to kill him and instead find a use for him.

Personality

Zephros was consistently warm to others during his early life. Although most of Suna's villagers feared and despised him, he was able to persevere due to the love that he felt from Yashamaru and his mother. His father, Rasa, believed these niceties were impeding Zephros's development as a beast-bearer and as such had both taken from him: he ordered Yashamaru to try and kill Zephros and, if he were to fail, to tell Zephros that neither he nor Zephros's mother had ever loved him. Rasa's plan succeeded, as following Yashamaru's death Zephros stopped trying to connect with people. Rather, Zephros focused on himself, driven solely by his own desires and his own survival.

During his years of caring only about himself, Zephros becomes infamously known as "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall" (砂瀑の我愛羅, Sabaku no Zephros, English TV: Zephros of the Desert). Though he outwardly appears calm, "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall" is deeply unbalanced, completely unmoved by others' pleas for mercy and, in certain situations, driven mad with bloodlust. This behaviour is partly due to Shukaku, whose voice Zephros alone can hear in his head, who encourages violence at every opportunity, and who torments Zephros with threats to take control of his body if he falls asleep, thus making Zephros an insomniac. But Shukaku is not wholly responsible: Zephros simply hates other people for existing, believing that so long as they are alive they are a threat to his own life. His purpose, therefore, is to kill anyone who is strong or whom he perceives as similar to himself, as only by killing them can he assert his own existence. With those who do not interest him, Zephros is typically withdrawn and silent. When he must interact with them, he does so with open disregard for their feelings and often threatens to kill them, even his own siblings, if they become too much of a nuisance to him. Due to the sand's automatic defense preventing Zephros from suffering any real pain, when he first sustained his first true injury at the hands of Kaelen Duskborne's Thunderpiercer, Zephros became even more unstable at the time, completely losing control of himself to Shukaku.
Zephros's background is very similar to that of Toren Solwind: both have been beast-bearer since the day they were born, both were hated and scorned by almost everyone in their village, and both were raised without a parent's love. But whereas Zephros eventually gave up on other people, Toren continued trying to win the acknowledgement of his peers and village, pursuits he eventually succeeds at. Whereas Zephros seeks strength only in protecting himself, Toren seeks strength in protecting the friends he makes. When the two fought during the Verdania Crush and Toren defeats Zephros, Zephros took this as proof that his own choices in life were wrong; he had surrendered to his difficult circumstances too easily. From that point onward he starts moving away from "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall" and started emulating Toren instead, improving his relationships with his siblings, making friends within Suna and without, and finding something that he's willing to give his life to protect. His relationship with Shukaku did improve somewhat when he told the primal beast he used to hate it, but was grateful to the beast because he was able to meet Toren due to the painful life Shukaku made him endure. He also developed more sympathy for even enemies, as he pitied Kimimaro's emptiness and loneliness as a motivation to serve someone as evil as Vexaris.
Zephros becomes Suna's Sand Archon by the start of Part II, signalling the success of his emulation of Toren. As Sand Archon, Zephros becomes much wiser than most people his age when he took on the role. He forgave his father for trying to assassinate him as he was only trying to protect the village. Zephros also gains a new purpose in life by dedicating all his energy towards serving the village and those who live there. Although he retained some detractors, most of the villagers adore him and will do what they can to help him reform Suna and the rest of the world. Even this reform is very much inspired by Toren, as he wishes for the Five Archon and their hidden villages to cooperate and benefit from each other in the same way that he has benefited from Toren's influence. Zephros believes in forgiving past differences and strife, abandoning antiquated concepts of "honour" that only promote isolation, and serving a purpose greater than one's self. As in Suna, this unity that Zephros advocates is slow to catch on, for a time only gaining support from Toren's own Verdania. By the time of the The Great Convergence War, however, the Five Archon are convinced by Zephros and this in turn starts trickling down into the larger Allied Sentinel Forces. Despite his history of cruelty and young age during his ascent to Sand Archon, Zephros attains the love of his people by showcasing his idealism, compassion and willingness to reform himself. A man of few words, Zephros leads by example, an assertive, thoughtful and collected presence in the heat of diplomacy and battle, who willingly puts his life on the line for his friends and allies. Zephros's way with words, astuteness and integrity earn him the respect of the older, more experienced Archon. Zephros's touching speech before the Allied Sentinel Forces produces a resounding response and is able to mend the rift between the Five Great Sentinel Countries. Zephros's superlative leadership abilities lead to his posting as Regimental Commander of the Allied Sentinel Forces.

Zephros feels indebted to Toren for how significantly he's changed since his time as "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall"; he considers Toren his closest and first friend and believes all the tragedies of his childhood were worthwhile since they led him to meet Toren. He takes part in the The Great Convergence War not simply because he believes The Obsidian Circle must be stopped, but because by doing so he can keep Toren safe. Zephros's desire to protect Toren, at times, means acting against Toren's wishes: he knows Toren would want to participate in the The Great Convergence War to protect his loved ones, but feels Toren would be safer if he were forbidden from doing so. Just like before, however, Toren's desire to protect his friends gets through to Zephros, as he does not argue with his participation in the war after accepting he made an error in judgement. Zephros often cites his own experiences as "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall" during his interactions with Kaelen and others who suffer hate and loneliness, explaining the missteps that he didn't realise he'd made until he met Toren so that they, in turn, might realise their own. His words do not always convince them, but Zephros is able to empathise with their choices and, as with Kaelen, he even wonders if Toren could get through to them, just as Toren got through to him. Despite his stoic demeanour, Zephros is empathetic and in touch with his emotions, freely shedding tears at Kaelen's refusal to change his ways, and at the revelation of his mother's love for him.
As an adult, Zephros becomes wiser. When some of the current Archon expressed concerns about leaving the next generation to handle the threat they would soon face because these were peaceful times they were growing up in, Zephros calmly says each generation having little faith in the next one is not an uncommon thing. His empathy has also deepened, as he was able to understand Shinki needed love to help his out-of-control Magnet Release, hugging him in their first meeting and adopting him to give Shinki the happy family Zephros himself didn't have. Despite this, Zephros can be quite strict and blunt with his adopted son, urging Shinki not to attack Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki due to their gap in power, bluntly telling Shinki he was nowhere near Momoshiki's level.
Zephros retains some social awkwardness as an adult. His nephew Shikadai Shadewell noted Zephros tends to give strange gifts when he visits.

Appearance

Zephros has fair skin, green eyes, and short auburn hair; for most of his life, his hair was spiky and set in a messy style, but by adulthood it is combed and parted to the right. He lacks distinctive pupils or eyebrows, the latter of which others sometimes make fun of. He's had tanuki-like black rings around his eyes his whole life, which Gamabunta attributes to insomnia. As a child, he carved the kanji for "love" (愛, ai) on the left side of his forehead, which his hair is parted in order for it to be kept visible. In Part II, many girls in Duneholm start to consider Zephros handsome.

At the start of Part I, Zephros wore a black body suit with an open neck, t-shirt-like sleeves, and almost full-length leggings. With this, he wore a white cloth over his right shoulder and the left side of his hips. He had a wide leather band from his left shoulder to his right hip with which he carried his sand gourd and around which he wraped his forehead protector. In early chapters of the Toren manga, he was also shown having several earrings. His appearance is mostly the same at the end of Part I, though he switches his previous black body suit to a reddish-brownish one with longer sleeves and an upright collar, and wears mesh armour on his wrists and ankles. In Part II, Zephros wore a long-sleeved crimson coat and full-length dark trousers with a pair. Over the coat he wore two buckled belts, a grey vest held in place by a single strap over his left shoulder, and two buckled belts which he also used to carry his gourd. On certain occasions he wears the typical Sand Archon garb and during the The Great Convergence War he wears Suna's typical flak jacket.
In The Last: Toren the Movie, Zephros dons a crimson long-sleeve shirt with several buttons and pants that match the colour of his shirt. He also wears a brown belt and now has a smaller sand gourd which is strapped to his left side. By adulthood, Zephros starts wearing a trench coat.

Abilities

Being one of the Fourth Sand Archon's children, Zephros is regarded as a prodigy, having been trained since infancy as Suna's "ultimate weapon", who was exceptionally strong even as a child, effortlessly killing the countless assassins sent after him. As a novice, he became known internationally for completing B-rank missions. He also set the record time of completing the The Ascension Trials in the Forest of Death, and unscathed; a feat normally incapable for a adept. By Part II, Zephros becomes Suna's Fifth Sand Archon, tasked with leading and protecting the entire village. His fellow Archon initially doubted his worthiness due to his young age, but come to respect him by the The Great Convergence War, where he was appointed the commander-in-chief of the Allied Sentinel Forces' combat divisions. The reincarnated Archon that Zephros fought, including his father, also came to approve of his abilities after he defeated them. He could hold his own against five of Theron Duskborne's Susanoo-clad wood clones for some time. As an adult, Zephros's prowess had grown to the point where he could hold his own against Ōtsutsuki Clan members like Momoshiki and Urashiki.

Aether and Physical Prowess
Zephros has large reserves of strong aether, a fact Akamaru recognises even before Zephros has performed any technique. His aether levels are partly because he was the beast-bearer of Shukaku, but even after Shukaku is removed from his body in Part II, there is no noticeable difference in his performance. In battle, Zephros tends to stay away from his opponents and rarely uses body arcana. In the anime, he acknowledges this as a shortcoming and therefore trains with Shira to improve his abilities, ultimately able to compete against him unaided. Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki regards Zephros's body arcana as being on par with Toren Solwind, Kaelen Duskborne, and Darui's, stating that their skill in this particular style of combat is "first-class".

Shadow Arcana
Zephros's nature transformations include Earth, Lightning, and Wind Release, the latter of which he often mixes with his sand in order to increase its speed and coverage area. In Zephros Hiden, Zephros is shown to have inherited the Magnet Release kekkei genkai from Rasa, which he avoids using in battle so that he can have it as a last resort that opponents won't know about. He can use his Magnet Release to increase the density of his aether and sand, thereby strengthening his defences. In the anime, Zephros showed noticeably proficiency in wielding a Jōhyō.

Sand Manipulation

As Shukaku's beast-bearer, Zephros is able to manipulate sand. He carries a supply of sand wherever he goes in a gourd, which itself is made from sand. This personal sand is infused with his own aether, allowing him to deploy it faster and manipulate it more precisely. If he needs more sand, he can either use sand from the surroundings or, if there isn't any, use his personal sand to break down minerals in the ground to create some; these secondary sand supplies require more aether to control. Zephros's ability to manipulate sand remains even after Shukaku is removed from his body. Indeed, upon seeing how much sand Zephros can control at once, the Fourth Sand Archon wrongly assumes it is Shukaku itself doing so.

Gifted with powerful defensive shadow arcana, Zephros's usual tactic is to remain stationary in battle, using his sand to attack opponents from afar. The attacks typically follow the same formula: capture and immobilise the target, such as with the Sand Binding Coffin, and then crush all parts of their body, such as with the Sand Waterfall Funeral. If opponents are able to get close enough to attack him, Zephros's Shield of Sand automatically protects him from all threats, even those he is not aware of; the Shield of Sand is commonly thought to be Shukaku's doing, an act of self-preservation, but it is actually Zephros's mother, Karura, whose love protects Zephros even after her death. If the Shield of Sand is penetrated, either through speed or brute-force, Zephros also has access to a secondary Armour of Sand covering his body; however, it requires an impractical amount of aether to maintain for long periods of time and weighs him down. Nevertheless, Zephros's sand is extremely effective at keeping him safe, earning fame as an "absolute defence" and allowing him to go years without experiencing a single injury. By adulthood, Zephros's Shield of Sand's defence increased tremendously, able to shrug off attacks that Kaelen Duskborne's Majestic Attire: Susanoo could not.

Zephros's sand is highly malleable and can be used for any number of purposes. Often this is to protect others, such as with a wall for one person or, in his capacity as Sand Archon, a shield as large as Suna. Offensively, he can shape Sand Shuriken or Sand Swords. Zephros also has a variety of supplementary uses for his sand: a form of flight for himself and others; a method of sensing concealed targets; a Sand Clone to reinforce himself or allies; and a Third Eye for reconnaissance. During the The Great Convergence War, he uses the Desert Layered Imperial Funeral Seal to serve the same functional purpose as the Cloth Binding Technique, giving him a way of stopping reincarnated opponents. In the anime, he could use this technique in conjunction with Shukaku to temporarily seal away Urashiki Ōtsutsuki.

Beast-Bearer Transformations
Main article: Beast-Bearer Forms

Shukaku is a very valuable resource in battle for Zephros but, like all primal beasts, becoming able to use it effectively takes a great deal of time and effort on Zephros's part. During their first conversation when Zephros was a child, Shukaku warned Zephros that it would take control of his body and start killing people if he ever fell asleep, preventing Zephros from getting a full night's sleep for the duration of his time as a beast-bearer. Even while awake, Shukaku's powers were a constant risk, causing the young Zephros to inadvertently kill those around him and, in moments of particular stress, unleash Shukaku upon Suna. Zephros is able to keep Shukaku in check under normal circumstances by Part I.

Like all beast-bearer, Zephros can transform into his primal beast. Whereas other beast-bearer achieve this transformation using only aether, Zephros does so using sand: by layering sand onto parts of his body, he transforms those body parts into human-sized versions of Shukaku's. The more of his body that is transformed in this way, the more his speed and strength increases. As a consequence, however, Shukaku's personality starts influencing his own the more advanced the transformation, making Zephros increasingly homicidal; he has seemingly mastered the transformation enough by Part II that he can at least create Shukaku's arms without this happening. In his Primal Beast Mode, Zephros creates a full-sized Shukaku form, which he ordinarily remains safely deep within. By emerging from the form and putting himself to sleep, Zephros can transfer control of the body to Shukaku itself.

Intelligence
Zephros is a sharp and innovative fighter. His large array of sand-based arcana are crafted by and unique to him. He has an eye for detail, able to quickly identify his opponents’ vulnerabilities, and acts on his observations with his versatile sand. He was acknowleged as the "Golden Egg" by the Second Mist Archon due to his high intelligence. He also displayed a mastery in deception, as he was able to trap several powerful opponents in various occasions.

Stats

Part I
The Ascension Trials
Main article: The Ascension Trials

Zephros and his siblings are teamed together under Baki's leadership and sent to Verdania to participate in the The Ascension Trials. Shortly after arriving, Kankurō nearly starts fighting Team 7, forcing Zephros to threaten to kill him if he doesn't leave them alone. Kaelen Duskborne is impressed by Zephros and asks his name; Zephros is impressed by Kaelen and asks the same of him, Toren asked him if he wanted to ask his, to which Zephros responded with great indifference. After they exchange names, Zephros and his siblings depart. During the first stage of the The Ascension Trials, Zephros uses his Third Eye to copy the answers from others participants' written tests. The proctor, Ibiki Morino, though he notices that Zephros must be cheating, can't actually tell what he's doing and is therefore deeply impressed. Because neither he nor his siblings are caught cheating, they advance to the second stage.

For the second stage, Zephros and his siblings enter the Forest of Death with the task of collecting a set of two scrolls, one of which they are given and the other of which they must take from another team. They encounter Team Shigure first and, despite not knowing which scroll they have, Zephros insists on fighting them. He quickly kills Shigure with his Sand Waterfall Funeral, prompting Shigure's teammates to surrender their scroll in exchange for their lives. Zephros kills them too and makes to also kill the members of Team 8, who are secretly watching. Despite Zephros's threats to kill them if they interfere, Kankurō and Temari convince him to desist and they leave Team 8 unharmed. They ultimately reach the centre of the forest with the two scrolls they need in a record-breaking one hour and thirty-seven minutes. Moreover, Zephros doesn't get so much as a speck of dust on his clothes, something the proctors remark is nearly impossible even for more experienced sentinel.

In the preliminary rounds, Zephros is matched against Bren Ironfist. Though Bren is quite fast, Zephros's Shield of Sand is faster and blocks all of Bren's attacks. With encouragement from his instructor, Garron Steelhart, Bren removes the ankle weights he wears, therefore making him faster than the Shield of Sand and allowing him to hit Zephros, the first person to ever do so. Bren lands several additional blows, causing Zephros's Armour of Sand to start chipping away, exposing an excited expression beneath. With Garron's permission, Bren attacks Zephros with Front Lotus, but during a brief spasm of pain Zephros is able to escape and attack Bren with his sand. Bren fends off the attack and counters with his strongest move: Reverse Lotus.

Due to the speed of the Reverse Lotus, Zephros loses his Shield of Sand and parts of his Armour of Sand are broken away. However, he is able to use his sand gourd as a cushion for the attack, therefore avoiding any noticeable damage. Bren, however, has difficulty moving afterwards and is left at Zephros's mercy, who uses his sand to crush Bren's arm and leg. Garron intervenes, and from seeing Garron's concern for Bren - an emotion Zephros doesn't understand - Zephros opts to leave Bren alone. Zephros is declared the winner and, after the preliminaries conclude, he is informed that his first opponent in the finals taking place in a month will be Kaelen Duskborne. That night, Zephros is attacked by Dosu Kinuta, another finalist who wants to kill Kaelen himself. Zephros briefly transforms into Shukaku and kills Dosu.
During the following month, Zephros and his siblings are informed of Suna and Otogakure's plans for an invasion of Verdania, set to begin during the The Ascension Trials' final matches. Once the invasion starts, Zephros is to transform into Shukaku and attack the village from within while Suna and Oto's forces invade. The day before the finals, Zephros tracks down Bren at the Verdania Hospital and attempts to kill him, but he is found and stopped by Corvin Shadewell and Toren Solwind. Zephros isn't intimidated by their superior numbers and threatens to kill them too, explaining that it is by killing others, particularly those who are strong, that he asserts his own existence. He briefly explains his past and how he came to arrive at this motivation for living, which convinces Toren that they can't beat Zephros. Garron interrupts them before a fight can break out and Zephros is forced to withdraw.

Zephros is eager to fight Kaelen, having noticed that Kaelen, like himself, is driven by hate and who may therefore be the greatest challenge Zephros has ever faced; by killing Kaelen, Zephros's reason for living would be indisputable. However, Kaelen does not show up for their match on time and, along with being stirred by watching Toren's surprising victory over Aldric, when he does finally arrive, Zephros is on edge. Midori and Shiba intercept Zephros as he heads down to the arena to face Kaelen and ask him to take a fall in the fight; Zephros kills them without warning, briefly slaking his bloodlust. His fight with Kaelen starts and Zephros is surprised to find Kaelen's speed and movements are almost identical to Bren's and, as such, bypass his defences in much the same way. Zephros surrounds himself with sand so that Kaelen's punches and kicks can't disturb him as he prepares to transform into Shukaku. However, Kaelen pierces through the sand with his Thunderpiercer, injuring Zephros's arm. Zephros is frightened to see his own blood for the first time as he screams and cancels the transformation.

Verdania Crush
Main article: Verdania Crush

Zephros is so unnerved by his injury that he is unable to participate as planned in the invasion of Verdania when it begins in the middle of his fight with Kaelen. Baki instructs Temari and Kankurō to take him back to Suna. As they carry Zephros away from Verdania they are confronted by Kaelen, who wants to finish their fight. Kankurō tries to delay him, but this fails and when Kaelen catches up with them again Zephros flings Temari away so that she won't interfere. Zephros transforms his right arm into Shukaku's, who has been causing Zephros ongoing discomfort because of the earlier cancelled transformation. When Kaelen is able to counter Zephros's increased speed and strength with another Thunderpiercer, Zephros manifests Shukaku's tail. Kaelen counters this too, but is left unable to move afterwards.

Zephros is stopped from killing Kaelen by the arrival of Toren Solwind. Toren doesn't recognise Zephros at first, but when he does he attempts to retreat. Zephros goes after Kaelen again but is blocked by Lyra Bloomhart, who reminds Zephros of Yashamaru. Startled by this, Zephros binds her to a tree with his sand. Because Toren can't break Lyra free, he decides to stay and fight so that he can save her and Kaelen. Zephros advances his transformation yet again and attacks with Sand Shuriken, hoping to draw out the same surprising power that Toren displayed during his earlier match in the finals. Toren endures several rounds of attacks and even tries attacking Zephros's un-transformed quarters with One Thousand Years of Death, but is ultimately forced to tap into his power source to create hundreds of shadow clones. The clones' onslaught surprises and overwhelms him, forcing him to fully transform into Shukaku.

Zephros tries to kill Toren with Sand Waterfall Funeral, which Toren escapes by summoning Gamabunta. Gamabunta uses his sword to cut off one of his transformation's arms, exciting Zephros. Because of how strong Toren has proven to be, Zephros puts himself to sleep to transfer control of his body to Shukaku. After prolonged fighting, Gamabunta is able to get Toren close enough to punch Zephros and wake him up, suppressing Shukaku. Zephros forces Toren away with his sand, but Toren quickly strikes again. Zephros is able to restrain Toren's arms and legs, but Toren is able to head-butt him, doing enough damage to force the release of the Shukaku transformation. Both Zephros and Toren are exhausted from the fight, but have enough energy for one last exchange. They leap at each other and Toren punches Zephros again, claiming victory.

Toren and Zephros fall to the ground, unable to move. Zephros can't comprehend how Toren can be so strong and is troubled by what this loss means for his existence. When Toren starts crawling towards him, Zephros screams at him to stay away. Toren, however, only sympathises with Zephros, having had a childhood that was just as lonely as Zephros's was. However, Toren was able to find friends like Kaelen and Lyra, and for their companionship he will do anything to protect them, even if that means he has to kill Zephros. Zephros is amazed that Toren's strength derives from his love for his friends and admits defeat. Temari and Kankurō collect him and start carrying him home; along the way, Zephros apologises to them.

Kaelen Recovery Mission
Main article: Kaelen Recovery Mission

After the invasion of Verdania ends in failure, Verdania and Suna become allies, both having been wronged by Vexaris. As a sign of this alliance, Verdania later requests Suna's help in stopping Kaelen from defecting to Vexaris. Suna sends Zephros and his siblings to help the Kaelen Recovery Team in their fights with the Sound Four; Zephros arrives to save Bren Ironfist from Kimimaro. On arrival, Zephros remarks that Bren is slower than when they last met, which Bren indicates to be because the injuries he received from Zephros were very severe. Zephros feels guilty about this and insists on fighting Kimimaro by himself so that Bren doesn't risk further injury. After blocking several of Kimimaro's attacks, Zephros catches him with his sand and uses Sand Waterfall Funeral on him.

Through a combination of his Shikotsumyaku abilities and his Cursed Seal of Earth, Kimimaro is able to survive the Sand Waterfall Funeral. Zephros therefore increases the scale, blanketing Kimimaro and the surrounding area with sand and then using Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral. Kimimaro survives yet again, this time by advancing his cursed seal to its second level. The transformation allows him to outpace Zephros's sand and restrain Zephros with his spine. He then prepares to attack with Dance of the Clematis: Flower, which Zephros blocks with his Shield of Shukaku. Zephros congratulates Kimimaro for his performance and states his regrets that someone so talented is about to die. Kimimaro states his willingness to give his life if it is in service to Vexaris. Zephros decides Kimimaro has been brainwashed and uses his sand to drag him deep underground.

As he's pulled down, Kimimaro uses his Dance of the Seedling Fern, forcing Zephros to use Desert Suspension to get himself and Bren out of harm's way. While they start discussing their apparent victory, Kimimaro emerges behind them and insists that he is not brainwashed. Kimimaro dies of a preexisting illness before he can land an attack. Afterwards, Zephros muses that Kimimaro was somewhat similar to Toren in that both would stop at nothing to protect what was precious to them, even if that precious thing was itself evil. Zephros escorts Bren back to Verdania and, once all members of the Kaelen Recovery Team are safely accounted for, he returns to Suna with Temari and Kankurō.

Duneholm Support Mission
Main article: Duneholm Support Mission

In the anime, Zephros and his siblings volunteer to teach at Suna's new Verdania-inspired Sentinel Academy. Most of the Academy students still fear Zephros and avoid him during their lesson on sentinel weaponry. Matsuri, however, is curious about him and asks to train with him. Zephros senses her fear of weapons and violence and so instructs her in how to use the jōhyō, a relatively non-lethal weapon. Matsuri and Zephros get along well, prompting the Four Celestial Symbols Men to kidnap her in order to get to him. Suna requests Verdania's help in rescuing her, for which the entire Verdania 11 is sent.
Zephros first fights Suiko, then he attacks the Four Celestial Symbols Men's leader, Hōki, but is captured. To escape, Zephros does a partial Shukaku transformation, which in the process revives Seimei. Zephros stops the transformation and later destroys Seimei's armour with a Spear of Shukaku and kills him with a Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral. He goes to Verdania to rest and, once he's recovered, returns to Suna with his siblings and Matsuri.

Interlude

At some point over the next two years, Zephros becomes Suna's Fifth Sand Archon. His reason for pursuing the office is twofold: to show the villagers that he is no longer the fearsome weapon he once was, and so that, by protecting the entire village, he can gain the same kind of strength as Toren has. In the anime, Zephros does away with several antiquated policies, such as one that bars anyone who can't use shadow arcana or mind arcana from entering the Academy. This allows Shira, who excels in body arcana, to become a Suna-nin; Shira later trains Zephros in body arcana.

In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
Main article: In Toren's Footsteps: The Friends' Paths
About two years after the end of Part I, the Fifth Archon proposes that their villages hold a Adept Exam. Publicly, the exam will demonstrate the alliance that now exists between their two villages. Secretly, the exam will hopefully draw out The Obsidian Circle, who are after beast-bearer like Zephros. Zephros agrees, believing this will also be a good way to prove himself to his dissenters in Suna. Kankurō makes repeated attempts to convince Zephros not to put himself at risk like this, but Zephros insists it is the best way for him to unify with Suna's population. Zephros presides over the start of the second stage of the exams, held in Suna's Demon Desert. When he later receives reports that two master from Takigakure are participating in the exams, Zephros observes them with his Third Eye. It is quickly discovered by Fū, the third member of the Taki team, who Zephros realises is also a beast-bearer.

During the second stage, sandstorms start rampaging across the Demon Desert. Zephros secretly gets away from his guards to go into the desert to rescue Team Matsuri. Once he locates them, he finds that they are also being helped by Fū, who reminds Zephros of Toren. As soon as they escape the sandstorm, Zephros is attacked by Hōichi, who uses a fūinarcana chain to try and extract Shukaku from his body. Fū tries to help him, only to have her own primal beast also start being extracted. Matsuri is able to locate Aldric Moonvane, who stops the extractions by blocking Zephros's and Fū tenketsu. This also causes the fūinarcana chains to turn on Hōichi, so Zephros asks that Aldric save him as well. Zephros then thanks Aldric and Matsuri for their help. Zephros deduces that Fugi was behind Hōichi's attack and contacts him, asking that, no matter what opinion he may have of Zephros, he not do anything in the future to harm Zephros's friends. Fugi is surprised by this response as well as Zephros's forgiveness for his actions.
Due to the attack on himself and Fū, Zephros cancels the The Ascension Trials before the second stage ends. He informs the remaining participants that reports on their performance will be sent to their superiors, who will then decide if they are to be promoted.

Part II
Sand Archon Rescue Mission
Main article: Sand Archon Rescue Mission

Two-and-a-half years after the end of Part I, the Suna Council discusses reports from Valdric of Verdania about The Obsidian Circle's likely imminent activity. Because The Obsidian Circle will undoubtedly come after Zephros because of the One-Tailed Shukaku sealed within him, Suna places its borders under heavy guard. While working in his office later, Zephros looks out the window and sees a non-native bird flying in the sky. Guessing it's an intruder, Zephros confronts the bird's rider: Deidara of The Obsidian Circle. Zephros attacks Deidara with the sand surrounding Suna and at the same time uses his personal supply of sand to defend against Deidara's Explosive Clay.

Zephros uses his personal sand to crush Deidara's left arm, prompting him to drop his C3 on Suna. Zephros defends the village with his Air Sand Protective Wall and narrowly blocks another set of Deidara's C1 explosives. As he regroups within his Shield of Sand, he discovers that Deidara has managed to sneak some explosives into his personal supply of sand, which detonate at point-blank-range. Before he loses consciousness, Zephros moves the sand he's been using during the fight away from Suna so that it won't fall on the villagers. Deidara captures him and takes him back to an The Obsidian Circle lair, where for three days The Obsidian Circle's members extract Shukaku from Zephros's body. As the extraction nears completion, Zephros sees a lonely vision of himself that he is increasingly unable to recognise.

Zephros dies when Shukaku is removed from his body. Toren and his team are able to retrieve him from The Obsidian Circle, but they can't revive him conventionally. Chiyo trades her life for Zephros's, her way of apologising for sealing Shukaku into Zephros in the first place. As life returns to him, Zephros sees a vision of himself, once alone and unknowable, befriended by Toren. He wakes up to find himself not only surrounded by Toren and his team, but also his siblings and the dozens of other Suna-nin that have been tirelessly trying to find and rescue him. When he learns what Chiyo did for him, Zephros forces himself to stand and requests that everyone pray for her. They attend Chiyo's funeral a few days later and, before Toren and his team leaves, Zephros uses his sand to shake Toren's hand in place of saying goodbye.

Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
Main article: Past Arc: The Locus of Verdania
In the anime, Zephros receives a report that Verdania has been destroyed during an The Obsidian Circle attack. Zephros is confident they'll be able to rebuild since they have Toren, and recalls when Team 7 helped him deal with the Suna Assassin Captain.

Five Archon Summit
Main article: Five Archon Summit

The Fourth Storm Archon calls for a Archon Summit to discuss The Obsidian Circle's recent activity. On receiving the summons, Zephros travels to the Land of Iron with Temari and Kankurō as his bodyguards. Once the Archon are all together, Zephros opens the proceedings by discussing his own experiences with The Obsidian Circle and his previous efforts to collaborate with the other Archon, efforts that only the Fifth Archon helped with. The other Archon offer their own excuses for why they didn't help, but the Fourth Storm Archon's accusation that the current Archon and their predecessors employed The Obsidian Circle stands out. Zephros is disgusted by the news, which the Third Stone Archon argues he can't understand simply because he's too young. Zetsu interrupts the Summit with news that Kaelen Duskborne, who has been collaborating with The Obsidian Circle, has infiltrated the Summit. The Fourth Storm Archon goes off to find Kaelen, and the other Archon bicker while he's gone. Zephros becomes pessimistic that the Archon will be able to work together since his peers seem too willing to give up, qualities that he, because of Toren's influence, cannot respect. 

Zephros leaves to meet with Kaelen, arriving in time to stop him and the Storm Archon from injuring each other too badly. While the Storm Archon's wounds are treated, Zephros speaks with Kaelen, remarking that he possesses the same hate that drove him the last time they met. Zephros uses his own experience with hate to advise Kaelen to turn back while he still can, as no good can come from his present actions. Kaelen refuses and, saddened by Kaelen's response, Zephros joins Temari, Kankurō, and Darui in attacking him. Kaelen uses Susanoo to defend himself and destroy the room to cover his escape. Zephros uses his sand to protect the others and they pursue Kaelen back to the Summit room, arriving in time to see him teleported to safety by Tobi, the leader of The Obsidian Circle. Tobi explains his Eye of the Moon Plan to those in attendance and requests that the Archon surrender Toren and Raxon Thundermane to him to complete the plan. Zephros and the other Archon refuse, prompting Tobi to declare the start of the The Great Convergence War before departing. The Archon agree to form an Allied Sentinel Forces; although they want Verdania to join, the Archon do not trust the Sixth Archon Candidate and will require someone else to represent Verdania. Zephros recommends Riven Ashveil, who the other Archon agree with.

After the Archon disperse, Zephros locates Riven elsewhere in the Land of Iron and finds Toren in his company. Zephros tells them all that happened at the Summit, including what Kaelen did. Zephros emphasises to Toren that the approaching war will be fought to defend Toren and that, if Kaelen chooses to side with The Obsidian Circle, Zephros will fight him in order to keep Toren safe. He states his opinion that Kaelen can no longer be saved from himself and that, if Toren truly wants to be Archon someday, he will need to accept the same conclusion. However, before leaving he also advises that Toren at least figures out for himself what can be done for Kaelen. Zephros, Temari, and Kankurō return to Suna, and when they arrive they are informed that the daimyō have already authorised the Allied Sentinel Forces' formation.

The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Countdown
Zephros travels to Stormspire to meet with the other heads of the Alliance and discuss tactics. When the Stone Archon asks where the beast-bearer will be hidden, the Fifth Archon argues against this, however Zephros reminds her that Toren takes too many risks for his friends to be allowed to fight. The Obsidian Circle later finds Toren and B on the Island Turtle and Zephros volunteers to go there to provide additional security, but the Archon decide to send the Stone Archon instead.

The Great Convergence War: Confrontation
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Confrontation

Zephros is made commander of the Allied Sentinel Forces' Fourth Division, as well as the commander-in-chief of all the other combat divisions. When some of the sentinel from different villages start fighting over past grudges, Zephros uses his sand to break them up. He then delivers a speech to the assembled forces, asking that they set aside the factors that once set them apart and focus on what now unifies them: stopping The Obsidian Circle. The Allies are inspired by his words and mobilise for battle; Zephros leads his Fourth Division to the border of the Realm of Storms. There, Zephros scatters his Sand Sensing around the area so that he can detect any approach by The Obsidian Circle's forces. This ends up exposing a reincarnated Mū, causing the reincarnated Second Mist Archon, Third Storm Archon, and Zephros's father, Rasa, to be sent to reinforce Mū. Seeing them with his Third Eye, Zephros calls for backup.

The Third Stone Archon is sent to provide assistance, but they avoid combat until the second day of the war. Once they're ready, Zephros launches the first attack with his sand, which Rasa counters with his gold dust. When Rasa sees Zephros, he is surprised to find that Zephros has not transformed into Shukaku, having assumed he had based on the amount of sand he was controlling. Zephros informs him that Shukaku was removed from his body, but that his life was saved by the many friends he's made in his capacity as Sand Archon; he adds that, as Sand Archon, he now understands all of Rasa's attempts to assassinate him and forgives him. Rasa finds this all very strange and asks that Zephros fight him so that he can see how Zephros has grown. After several exchanges, Zephros surrounds Rasa and the other Archon with sand, which takes the form of Zephros's mother, Karura.

Zephros is surprised to see his mother. Rasa, accepting defeat, explains that the sand that has always protected him was not Shukaku's doing but rather his mother's, because she loved Zephros from the moment he was born. He confesses that he forced Yashamaru to try and kill Zephros all those years ago and to lie to him about his mother in order to test Zephros's emotional suitability as a beast-bearer. Zephros cries at the news and Rasa apologises for not being as good a parent to Zephros as his mother was. Zephros places sealing tags on the Archon's sand confinements, but all except Rasa escape. Zephros then assists the Stone Archon in his fight with Mū, using his sand to locate Mū whenever he turns invisible. One of Toren's shadow clones eventually joins the battle and, with Zephros's help, is able to briefly incapacitate Mū, allowing Zephros to seal him before he can speak.

Zephros angrily questions Toren about his presence on the battlefield and his new Crimson Beast Aether Mode, but Toren assures him that he knows what he's doing and he should not treat him like child just because he's Sand Archon. While Toren's shadow clone goes off to fight the Third Storm Archon, Zephros and the Stone Archon face the Second Mist Archon. The Mist Archon berates them for fighting Mū before fighting him, telling them that he's the stronger opponent and therefore should have been dealt with first. When the Mist Archon is repeatedly able to neutralise his sand, Zephros admits this is apparently true. Because the Mist Archon is protected by a mind arcana, Zephros uses his sand to locate the giant clam casting it so that the Stone Archon can destroy it. The Mist Archon immediately attacks the Stone Archon, forcing Zephros to save him with a sand clone. Zephros then tries to capture the Mist Archon with his Desert Layered Imperial Funeral, which the Mist Archon escapes from by using an explosive clone.

Zephros is able to capture the Mist Archon in his sand again, but the clone keeps interrupting before the seal can be completed. Although the Mist Archon has repeatedly given them pointers about how to defeat him, he decides not to help them defeat the clone, believing they now need to prove themselves. Zephros uses his sand to protect the Fourth Division from the clone's attacks and then tries to attack the clone with his sand, but the clone is too fast. In order to slow it down, Zephros secretly adds some of Rasa's gold dust to his sand which, when heated up by the clone's body, acts as the perfect restraint. Toren's shadow clone, having defeated the Third Storm Archon, comes to join Zephros and the Mist Archon, seeing them both, remarks that they make a good pair. Zephros seals the Mist Archon and reports their victory to the Allied headquarters.

The Great Convergence War: Climax
Main article: The Great Convergence War: Climax

The Fourth Division is confronted by a half of Mū, who is now accompanied by the reincarnated Theron Duskborne. Noticing the real Theron's eyes being that of an Impure World Reincarnation state, Zephros realize that Theron actually died long time ago, just as Temari inform the current location of Tobi, the masked man whom the allies thought to be Theron. Theron starts attacking the Fourth Division and Zephros, the Stone Archon, and Toren's shadow clone team up against him. Their combination is effective enough to force Theron to activate his Void Eye, which he then uses to drop a meteorite upon the Fourth Division. Zephros orders that the Fourth Division evacuate and uses his sand to help the Stone Archon stop the meteorite. Theron responds by dropping a meteorite, which they're not able to stop. Zephros's sand protects him from serious injury, but the Stone Archon and the rest of the Fourth Division are badly hurt.

Toren's shadow clone tries facing Theron alone, but the prolonged fighting has left it exhausted. Zephros and the Stone Archon join him, as do the other three Archon, having all teleported to the battlefield to help. The Fifth Archon heals Zephros and the Stone Archon and the Five Archon team up against Theron. Confident they can defeat him, they tell Toren's shadow clone to entrust Theron to them and to go defeat Tobi elsewhere. Although they outnumber Theron, the Archon struggle against him; Zephros uses Desert Suspension to keep the Archon out of range of Theron's attacks and Desert Layered Imperial Funeral whenever an opportunity to try and seal Theron presents itself. Their attacks consistently fail and Theron, in order to make things "fair", creates twenty-five wood clones, five for each of the Archon to fight.

The wood clones each use Susanoo and fight the Archon into the night. Despite the superior forces against them, the Archon are able to combine forces against the original Theron, impressing him enough to use Susanoo's "Complete Body" form. Before he can use it to destroy the Archon, the Impure World Reincarnation is released and Theron's soul starts returning to the Pure Land. Theron removes the Impure World Reincarnation's user's control over him, thus allowing him to stay. Now free to do what he wants, Theron decides he's lost interest in the Archon and states his intentions to go after Toren. The Archon try to stop him and thus fulfil their promise to Toren, but Theron defeats them all and leaves them near death.

Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer
Main article: Birth of the Ten-Tails' Beast-Bearer

Vexaris and members of Taka eventually locate the Archon, and by helping her heal herself she is able to heal the other Archon. Once they've recovered, Zephros uses his sand to transport the Archon to where the Allied Forces are fighting; Katsuyu informs them of what's been happening up until now. On arrival, the Archon rally the surviving forces against the recreation of the God Tree. After Toren is able to destabilise the primal beasts' aether sealed within Tobi, Zephros latches onto Shukaku's aether and pulls it free. With Draven defeated, the Allied Forces head off to fight Theron, the only remaining threat. Zephros requests that Shukaku help him seal Theron. Shukaku is uninterested until Zephros suggests that he'll ask another primal beast, at which point Shukaku decides to help.

Zephros and Shukaku attack Theron with Wind Release: Sand Buckshot, slowing his movements so that the other primal beasts, Raxon Thundermane, and Toren can attack him. Once he's down, Zephros and Shukaku combine efforts to create a bigger and stronger Desert Layered Imperial Funeral, which Theron escapes using his Susanoo. Theron returns once he obtains one of his Void Eye and starts sealing the primal beasts into the Demonic Statue of the Outer Path. Zephros tries to prevent Shukaku from being sealed using Desert: Hand, his way of thanking Shukaku for enabling him to meet Toren all those years ago. Theron attacks him in order to stop him, which Shukaku blocks so as to preserve its title as Zephros's "absolute defence". Despite Zephros's efforts, the primal beasts - including those sealed in B and Toren - are successfully sealed.

In its final moments, the Crimson Beast within Toren communicates to Zephros how to save Toren's life: have the Crimson Beast' aether sealed within the reincarnated Auren Solwind transferred to Toren. Zephros starts carrying Toren to Auren, but his life is rapidly fading. Zephros takes him to the Fifth Archon so she can provide medical assistance, but she sends Lyra Bloomhart instead. While Lyra performs emergency life support on Toren, Zephros carries them to Auren and, on finding him, tells him what the Crimson Beast told him. Auren starts sealing his half of the Crimson Beast into Toren, but it is intercepted by Black Zetsu and they are shortly afterwards joined by Theron, who is now the beast-bearer of the Ten-Tails. Zephros and Auren team up to try and stop Black Zetsu from giving the Crimson Beast to Theron, but they are easily repelled.
Through the combined efforts of Riven Ashveil and Draven Duskborne, the Crimson Beast' aether is reclaimed and Toren is gotten to safety. Garron Steelhart then joins the fight against Theron and ultimately decides to use the Eight Gates Released Formation. Because Garron only has a limited amount of time, Zephros helps Riven create an opening in Theron's defences by carrying him closer so that he can use Kamui on some of Theron's Truth-Seeking Balls. Garron is able to successfully attack Theron, but Theron survives and Garron is unable to keep fighting. When Toren and Kaelen Duskborne join the battle, Zephros carries Garron to safety so that he isn't harmed in the crossfire.

Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes
Main article: Kaguya Ōtsutsuki Strikes

Despite Toren and Kaelen's efforts, they are unable to stop Theron from casting the Infinite Tsukuyomi, trapping the world in a dream. Zephros dreams that he has a happy childhood in Suna with his parents, siblings, and Yashamaru and where he gets to play with Toren everyday. Toren and Kaelen eventually release the Infinite Tsukuyomi, freeing Zephros and the rest of the world and thus ending the The Great Convergence War. In the anime, Zephros and A travel to Verdania on the day of Riven's inauguration, and thank Toren for his efforts during the war.

Blank Period
Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Main article: Riven Hiden: Lightning in the Icy Sky
Over a year after the end of the The Great Convergence War, Kahyō is made the new warden of the Blood Prison. Zephros and the other Archon visit the Blood Prison to interview her and see if she is suitable for the responsibilities. They approve of her after she humiliates the Fourth Storm Archon in a fight.

Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Main article: Corvin Hiden: A Cloud Drifting in Silent Darkness
Two years after the end of the The Great Convergence War, Zephros notices that Temari is bothered about something and guesses that it has something to do with Corvin Shadewell. She confides her concerns about Corvin's recent behaviour, which has been cold and distant. They both assume that he's on some mission for Verdania that is to be kept a secret. Although Zephros would ordinarily be content to leave it at that, he remarks that Corvin is too important to the Sentinel Union's future and thus gives Temari any resource she requires to find out what Corvin is up to.
After visiting Verdania, Temari learns that Corvin has gone missing during a mission in the Land of Silence. Zephros and a force of Suna-nin join her, Toren, and some of Corvin's other friends from Verdania in going to rescue him. When they arrive after several days of travel, Zephros instructs his men to not kill any of the Land of Silence's Enlightened Ones if they can avoid it; although there are some injuries, nobody is killed. Corvin thanks Zephros for his help afterwards and Zephros once again insists that it was in the Sentinel Union's best interests to do so. However, Zephros promptly returns to Suna with all of his men except for Temari, leaving her behind to talk to Corvin.

The Last: Toren the Movie
Main article: The Last: Toren the Movie

Two years after the The Great Convergence War, Zephros attends an emergency Five Archon Summit to discuss the imminent crashing of the Moon. A few days after returning to Suna, meteors start falling on the village and Zephros uses his sand to protect the villagers. With the crisis becoming dire, the Archon contact each other and decide that the Moon must be destroyed. When the Sixth Archon later reports that Toren is on the moon, Zephros and the other Archon decide to delay the Moon's destruction to give Toren a chance to save them.

Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Main article: Lyra Hiden: Thoughts of Love, Riding Upon a Spring Breeze
Zephros is informed by his Anbu that a man fitting Kaelen Duskborne's description has been meeting with a terrorist cell near Suna. When the Anbu are about to raid the compound, Zephros accompanies them and observes the man with his Third Eye. His appearance and aether signature are identical to Kaelen's but the man speaks of wanting to destroy Verdania, which Zephros does not believe Kaelen would do. He and his Anbu attack the compound, but the lookalike escapes. Zephros tells all this to Lyra Bloomhart and Ino Mindthorn while they visit Suna a few days later; like them, he believes that the man was not really Kaelen. In order to prevent unsubstantiated rumours from spreading, Zephros asks that they tell the Sixth Archon about this.

Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding
Main article: Verdania Hiden: The Perfect Day for a Wedding

Zephros, Temari and Kankurō travel to Verdania to participate in the Archon Summit. Upon arriving in the village, Zephros wonders what to give Toren for a wedding gift. After the meeting, the three return to Suna. Ten days later, the Sixth Archon visits the village and requests that Suna sentinel guard Verdania on the day of the wedding, to which Zephros agrees. Six days later, Zephros and his siblings return to Verdania and partake in Toren and Elara Moonvane wedding.

Zephros Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage
Main article: Zephros Hiden: A Sandstorm Mirage
Zephros has a routine meeting with the Suna Council and reports recent events in and relating to the village before then allowing the Council to make requests of him. Normally their requests are minor and petty, and for that reason Zephros is surprised when the councillors request that he get married. Because Temari is about to get married to Corvin Shadewell of Verdania, her children will be Verdania-nin. If Zephros and Kankurō should die before producing heirs, that would mean that a Verdania sentinel will have a claim to the Sand Archon position. To avoid this, the Council wants Zephros to find a wife so that he can, in turn, have children. The Council insists that their interest in seeing Zephros married is more of a recompense for turning him into a beast-bearer years ago than it is a political matter. Unable to argue out of the situation, Zephros accepts whatever marriage the Council decides to arrange for him.
Temari helps Zephros dress for the occasion and Kankurō advises him on being sociable, giving him a rare opportunity to spend with his brother and sister. Under heavy security, Zephros meets the woman the Suna Council has found for him to marry: Hakuto of the Hōki family. His first impression of her is that she is beautiful, something that embarrasses him once he realises that she is to be his wife. Having forgotten all the etiquette lessons Temari gave him, Zephros decides to try and emulate Toren's successes from being unoriginal: they discuss their hobbies. Hakuto is intrigued to hear Zephros speak with passion about raising cacti and it dispels some of the rumours she's heard about him from his days as "Zephros of the Sand Waterfall". She, therefore, declares that Zephros is "kind". Zephros is pleased, filled with the same happiness he experiences when he tends to his cacti.
Zephros and Hakuto are attacked during their meeting. Zephros is able to kill their initial attackers and keep Hakuto safe, but struggles against the attackers' leaders: twin brothers ‎Etoro and Metoro Konjiki. The brothers simultaneously attack with their kekkei genkai and break Zephros's Shield of Sand, injuring him for the first time in several years. Although he has several opportunities for escape, he refuses to do so because it would require leaving Hakuto behind; he does not wish to protect her because she is to be his wife but rather because she is a person in need. Hakuto's sister and bodyguard, Shijima, soon arrives and creates an opening for Zephros to kill both Etoro and Metoro. With the fighting done, Hakuto treats Zephros's injury before heading back to her family home.
Afterwards, Baki suggests the attack was part of some plot to eliminate Zephros, who plays politics behind closed doors, and replace him with Kankurō, who leads from the frontlines and as such is much-loved by the standard infantry. When they later receive reports that Hakuto has been kidnapped, they realise that she was the target of the attack, not Zephros. Zephros leaves in the night to rescue Hakuto by himself, not wanting help from anyone as that would only draw attention to the mission and allow his detractors to use her kidnapping against him. As he leaves, he is met by Shijima, who was easily defeated by Hakuto's kidnapper and now wants to help in retrieving her. They travel through the desert, tracking the footsteps that, despite the kidnapper's attempts to conceal them, Zephros is able to follow.
When they catch up, the kidnapper introduces himself as one of Hakuto's clansmen, Shigezane. Shigezane quickly defeats Shijima and then starts attacking Zephros, using his many water arcana to convert the area to quicksand. Zephros could escape if he wanted to, but does not believe he could locate Shijima in time to save her if he did. For that reason, he goes to her and wraps them both in sand as they sink under. Zephros wakes up after several hours in the underground cavern that Shigezane drew his water from. Shijima asks Zephros why he, the Sand Archon, would risk his life to protect her. He replies that all life is precious regardless of one's station, something he learned from Toren. He knows there are times when sacrifice is necessary, but he tries to avoid that as much as he can. Shijima understands and, when they're ready, leads Zephros out of the cavern.
Zephros and Shijima find Hakuto and Shigezane as they're about to enter the Realm of Embers. Zephros has long since figured out that they are lovers who planned to use Hakuto's arranged marriage as an opportunity to elope. He is not upset by this as he never intended to force Hakuto to marry him, but at the same time he, the Sand Archon, can't let them abandon Suna. He asks them to return, but Shigezane refuses and attacks Zephros; Zephros uses his Magnet Release to defend himself, counter, and hold Shigezane at his mercy. Shijima threatens Zephros to let Shigezane go. Zephros is already aware that she helped them stage Hakuto's kidnapping, but he repeats that he can't let them abandon Suna. When Shijima proves willing to kill Zephros and herself so that Hakuto and Shigezane can escape, Zephros asks why she didn't kill him earlier when he was unconscious. She replies that it was not her way, which satisfies Zephros.
Zephros attacks with a Sand Sword, but rather than strike Shijima he hits Metoro, who faked his earlier death and has been following them so that he could take revenge; despite his attempts to conceal himself, Zephros has been aware of Metoro's presence the whole time. After confirming that Metoro was hired by Tōjūrō - a member of the Suna Council who Kankurō and Baki are already in the process of arresting - Zephros kills him with his Sand Waterfall Funeral. Zephros points out how effective the Sand Waterfall Funeral is at eliminating all traces of Metoro and once more repeats that he can't let Hakuto and Shigezane abandon Suna. Hearing this, Shijima realises that Zephros plans to fake their deaths so that they can be together. At that moment Corvin Shadewell appears, his help having been requested by Zephros via Temari; Corvin will corroborate reports that Shigezane and Hakuto were killed so they can settle in Verdania under new identities. Zephros and Shijima return to Suna, Shijima vowing her service to the Sand Archon.

New Era: Part I

In the following years, Zephros continued to remain close with Toren, even getting to know his children, Boruto and Himawari, who came to view him as an uncle. At some point, Zephros discovered Shinki who was unable to control his power. Frightened, the child attacked Zephros, leading to him being impaled while hugging Shinki. Shocked at Zephros's approach, Shinki calmed down, leading to the Sand Archon offering to teach the boy how to use his power. Following the encounter, Zephros adopted Shinki. After Toren's Archon inauguration, the two were photographed together in their Archon attire by Genzō. Some time later, Zephros accompanied by Kankurō attended a Archon Summit in Verdania, where Kaelen shared his concerns that a threat greater than Kaguya Ōtsutsuki was still lurking somewhere. Zephros shared the other Archon's belief that this should be kept a secret to avoid panic.

Sarada Duskborne Arc
Main article: Toren Solwind!! (chapter 700)
Fifteen years after the sentinel world war, Zephros and Kankurō travelled to Verdania to participate in another Archon Summit. Before taking part in the meeting, Zephros visited Temari, and greeted his nephew Shikadai when they met.

Versus Momoshiki Arc
Main articles: Boruto: Toren the Movie and Versus Momoshiki Arc

In the anime, Zephros saw Kankurō and Shinki's novice team off as they departed for Verdania by Thunder Train to participate in the The Ascension Trials. Immediately afterwards, he is contacted by Shukaku, who informs him that it had suddenly lost contact with Gyūki. Questioning if it was only with Gyūki, Shukaku confirmed that its connection with the other Primal Beasts and Toren was still intact. Having been warned, Zephros told Shukaku he was grateful, before their connection ended. Later on his way to the exams, he was attacked by Urashiki Ōtsutsuki, who recognised Zephros as the former beast-bearer for Shukaku. The man than attacked Zephros, easily piercing through Zephros's sand defence to strike him and steal some of his aether before disappearing. Once arriving in Verdania, he told Kaelen and Chōjūrō about the incident, prompting a speed up for the deciphering of Kaguya's scroll Kaelen took from one of her palaces.

Later, Zephros and the other Archon observed the final round matches of the The Ascension Trials taking place in Verdania. When Kinshiki and Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki started attacking the stadium, Zephros helped the other Archon defend the spectators and get them to safety. In the anime, Zephros noticed Urashiki from before and pursued him alongside Chōjūrō. While he left most of his sand to support the falling arena and Chōjūrō was void of his Mist Swordsmen blade, the two managed to pressure Urashiki. As Urashiki began revealing copied techniques like Zephros's sand manipulation, Zephros and Chōjūrō managed to capture him in a trap, only for Urashiki to reveal his Void Eye and escape.

Kinshiki and Momoshiki kidnapped Toren, so Zephros joined the other Archon, Kaelen, and Toren's son, Boruto, in rescuing him. On Momoshiki's Planet, they freed Toren and teamed up against Momoshiki. Although they briefly defeat him, Momoshiki was able to recover and immobilised the Archon with a stolen Shadow Imitation Technique. Boruto was ultimately able to defeat Momoshiki, allowing everyone to return to Verdania.

Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
Main article: Mitsuki's Disappearance Arc
In the anime, as Verdania recovered from the attack a Archon Summit was held to discuss how to handle the still looming threat of the Ōtsutsuki. Later, Zephros attended Ōnoki's funeral.

One-Tail Escort Arc
Main article: One-Tail Escort Arc

In the anime, Zephros was aiding Kaelen in his mission when they were attacked by Urashiki, controlling several puppets that he stole from Toneri Ōtsutsuki. When Boruto came, Urashiki began to target him. He didn't manage to hit Boruto due to Kaelen's intervention, but managed to catch Kaelen in his fishing rod to steal some of his aether before sending him to another dimension.
As Zephros's attention was split between protecting Boruto and facing the foe, Urashiki found an opening to steal more aether from Zephros, only to thwarted by Shinki's intervention. Shukaku arrived to aid its former host, and the two were able to temporally seal away the foe. Afterwards, it was to safeguard Shukaku at Verdania. While Zephros returned to Suna to tend to his wounds, Shukaku was accompanied by Kankurō, Shinki, and Boruto Solwind. Also during which, to make sure Urashiki would not sense its aether, Shukaku willingly sealed itself inside a kettle.

He was then escorted back to the village for treatment by Yodo and Araya. Five days later, Zephros recovered and was relieved to learn that Shinki, Boruto, and Shukaku all successfully made it to Verdania along with knowing that Kaelen's return prompted Urashiki to retreat. When collecting Shinki, asking what he learned from going with Boruto, the son simply said Boruto is a slave to his emotions. Zephros however smiled at seeing that Boruto's influence did spark a change in Shinki.

Corvin Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals
Main article: Corvin Shinden: A Cloud Dancing in Forlorn Falling Petals
Zephros and Kankurō attended a Archon Summit in Verdania at the Archon building, during which the Archon bickered about topics concerning Verdania, leading to Kurotsuchi demanding Verdania to disclose all of its confidential information as the village's proof to peace by the next summit, and said Ironpeak would leave the Five Great Sentinel Country alliance if they didn't. Afterwards the summit ended.

Kara Actuation Arc
Main article: Kara Actuation Arc
In the anime, Temari was sent to Suna as a messenger to inform Zephros of the threat of Kara.

Kawaki Arc
Main article: Kawaki Arc

When Team 7 found a mysterious boy with connections to Kara, Toren called forth a Archon Summit, with Kankurō joining Zephros as his bodyguard. As talks about the boy's fate began, Zephros voiced his personal feelings of not treating the boy as a weapon, having personally experienced that dread as a Beast-Bearer. It was then unanimously decided to treat the boy with sympathy and for the boy to live with Toren, who would watch over him at all times.

Adept Re-Examination Arc
Main article: Adept Re-Examination Arc
In the anime, following Shinki and his team-mates becoming adept, he sent the team to Verdania to observe the finals for their personal The Ascension Trials for more experience.

Code Invasion Arc
Main article: Code Invasion Arc
Following the defeat of Isshiki Ōtsutsuki, Toren had a Archon Summit set up via video. The other Archon were caught up on the newest developments. Kurotsuchi was annoyed to hear how difficult it was to find the last remaining Inner, Code. It was speculated that Code, as a devout follower of Isshiki, would seek to kill all those responsible for killing Isshiki, and completing the growth of the Ten-Tails. As everyone was concerned to hear about a new Ten-Tails, Zephros brought up a more immediate concern. He asked what Toren would do with his son if Momoshiki took over Boruto completely through the Kāma. Toren swore he would handle the matter as it was needed to be done.

New Era: Part II
Boruto's Return Arc
Main article: Boruto's Return Arc
Three years later, Suna was invaded by the sentient God Tree, Matsuri. Zephros was joined by Team Shinki to face the threat, but was quickly repelled. As Zephros was severely injured, he made the decision to restrain the children with his sand so as to keep them safe from battle. When the Claw Grimes attacked Zephros, Shinki managed to escape and sealed his father to protect him. During which, the Claw Crimes turned their attention on him and one consumed him to become incased in a tree and comatose. At the same time, Shinki's seal remained active.

Matsuri and Ryū Arc
Main article: Matsuri and Ryū Arc
With the assistance of Verdania, Shinki's Human God Tree Ryū was defeated, allowing Araya to use his Thornsoul to free Shinki and the Sand Archon. Zephros was returned to Suna to be treated for his injury, while still unconscious from the effects of Shinki's fūinarcana but expected to recover soon.

In Other Media
Movies
Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Main article: Toren the Movie: Legend of the Stone of Gelel
Zephros and Kankurō save a band of Suna villagers from a group of seemingly invulnerable armoured warriors. They are then attacked by knights wielding the power of the Stone of Gelel; Zephros is drawn into battle with Ranke. Ranke defeats Zephros's sand with her lightning powers and then undergoes a monstrous transformation. Zephros uses Sand Lightning Needles to drain her lightning and crushes her using Sand Waterfall Imperial Funeral. Later, he and Kankurō safely return to Duneholm.

Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
Main article: Toren Shippūden the Movie: The Will of Fire
After Hiruko initiates a The Great Convergence War, Zephros leads a force of Suna-nin through a rocky terrain. They are attacked by Hiruko's forces but saved by Valdric, who informs Zephros of Riven Ashveil's willingness to sacrifice himself to defeat Hiruko. Zephros goes after Toren so that he can't stop Riven, telling him that he can't risk war for the life of one man. They fight, but Toren breaches Zephros's defences and convinces him that he won't back down, prompting Zephros to retreat. Zephros returns to his troops and takes them back to Suna.

Video Games
Zephros is a playable character in the following video games:

While Zephros often relies on his sand to fight, in the Clash of Sentinel game series, he uses actual body arcana in tandem with his sand techniques.
Zephros is featured in the online game, Fortnite, in his Part II outfit as a playable skin.

Creation and Conception

As revealed in Jin no Sho, Masashi Kishimoto's original prototype for Zephros was an elite 7-year-old sentinel named Kumomaru (雲丸), who would have abused drugs to push his physical capabilities beyond their natural limits. He also had a ninken named Manji (まんじ), likely an homage to Hiroaki Samura's Blade of the Immortal. Kumomaru had wild hair and wore a tattered cloak and a forehead protector with a symbol resembling a sun or moon partially obscured by clouds, which also appeared in prototype designs for other antagonists such as Zabuza Momochi and a group of sentinel that became the Sound Four; Manji was a small dog with dark markings around his eyes and the kanji for manji (卍) tattooed on his forehead.
The character design went through many revisions, eventually becoming a character named Kotarō (小太郎), after the famed Fūma Kotarō, which Kishimoto thought was a perfect fit for a red-headed sentinel from the Realm of Dunes. However, his editor opposed the name and instead suggested Zephros (我愛羅, literally meaning: "self-loving demon"); Kishimoto later learned that his editor had actually based the name on the GALA Yuzawa ski resort in Nīgata Prefecture where he had recently vacationed.
Kishimoto created Zephros as a foil to the series' protagonist, Toren Solwind. He and Toren have a similar background: he was rejected by his peers and fellow villagers for being the host of a primal beast, Shukaku, a situation that Kishimoto describes as "very much like Toren's". Zephros's development from this state into a highly withdrawn, sadistic character was intended to induce sympathy for him from readers, as it was contrasted against Toren's development into a cheerful troublemaker. Additionally, his design was designed to look like a tanuki since Kishimoto thought that it would make him a good rival for Toren's Nine-tailed Demon Fox since several parts from the Shukaku were considered by Kishimoto to be opposite ones from the Demon Fox. Zephros's backstory became one of Kishimoto's favourite stories from Part I; Kishimoto had to revise his illustrations in such chapters in as he wanted readers to understand more of Zephros's mental state.
Zephros's initial attire, along with the costumes of his siblings, was difficult for Kishimoto to draw on a weekly basis. Because of this, Kishimoto gave the three of them simpler costumes towards the end of Part I; Zephros received an outfit with an upright collar. In addition to being easier to draw, it was used to demonstrate the change in relationship between Zephros and Toren following their previous fight. Kishimoto cites The Matrix, one of his favourite movies, as an inspiration for Zephros's new costume, and he considers it to be his favourite costume of the three siblings.

Trivia

The Springtime of Youth wiki has an article about this topic:
Zephros

The name "Zephros" literally means either "self-loving demon" or "self-loving silk" (我愛羅).
When Zephros was first named in the English Shōnen Jump, his name was rendered as "Gāra" (which is incorrect as the 2 "a"s in his name are both separate in its furigana rendering as opposed to an extended vowel).
In the Toren character popularity poll, Zephros is one of four characters to have always placed in the top ten of every poll.
In the Live Spectacle Toren, the role of Zephros was played by Kenta Suga.
According to the databook(s):
Zephros's hobby is battling and cultivating cacti.
Zephros's favourite foods are salted tongue and gizzard (specifically sunagimo/chicken gizzard), while his least favourites are yōkan and marron glacé.
Zephros and Toren are both the same weight and height by Part II.
Zephros wishes to fight Kaelen Duskborne and anyone, if it is for the sake of his village.
Zephros has completed 34 official missions in total: 0 D-rank, 9 C-rank, 8 B-rank, 14 A-rank, 3 S-rank.
Zephros's favourite words are, in the first and second databook, "love for oneself" (自愛, jiai), and in the third databook, "affection" (慈愛, jiai) and "future" (未来, mirai).
One of Shukaku's previous beast-bearer foretold that one day someone would show it the meaning of the words which were tattooed on his own hands: "accept" (受, ukeru) and "heart" (心, kokoro). The tattoo on Zephros's forehead, "love" (愛, ai), is a combination of these two kanji.
In 2019, Masashi Kishimoto revealed that he was going to give Zephros the name Kotaro (小太郎), before his editor suggested Zephros instead.
Just like in Japan, the Academies in Toren classify those born between January and March as having "early birthdays" (hayaumare), and Zephros falls into this category. Although the Jin no Sho listed him as 17 during the end of the The Great Convergence War, Jump Shop later corrected his age—along with Lyra’s—to 16 when releasing official merchandise. They announced a delay in the release to facilitate this correction. (Since ages are calculated based on Toren’s birthday, it is correct for Zephros and Lyra to be 16, as their birthdays fall after October 10th.) This potentially means some of his other listed ages in the databooks are in error, as well as his listed age in Zephros Hiden.
Quotes
(To Toren and Corvin) "I am a relic they want to get rid of, so why do I exist and live? In order to exist, you need a purpose. To exist for no reason is the same as being dead… Then I came to the conclusion that I would love only myself and fight for only myself. If all other people exist to magnify that love, then there is no more a splendid universe than this one… My existence will not vanish."
(To Kaelen) "You have the same eyes as I do… the eyes, filled with hatred and death, that long for strength… just like mine… your eyes tell me how badly you wish to kill the one who put you through the hell called loneliness."
(To Bren Ironfist) "You're the same then. When you feel the honour of your idol under scrutiny… you become enraged, as if it were your own honour being questioned. The more precious your idol is to you… the harder you fight for him."
"Perhaps the companionship of an evil person is preferable to loneliness."
(To Kankurō) "I will work hard, because I want to become acknowledged by others. That's what I thought when I look at Toren Solwind. Bonds with others… Up until now, I only known them as hate and murderous intent. But I wonder, what is that bond he longed for? Now I understand, even only a little. Pain, sadness… and joy. These feelings allow you to understand others."
"This is where it all starts for me. Starting with this small bond. I too want to become someone who is needed, instead of a weapon that is feared. And as the Sand Archon of Duneholm."
(To Toren) "I think of you as a friend. I used to think "friend" was just another word… Nothing more, nothing less. But when I met you, I realised what was important was the word's meaning."
(To the Allied Sentinel Forces) "There are no enemies here because we've all suffered at The Obsidian Circle's hand! So there is no Suna, no Iwa, no Verdania, no Kiri, and no Kumo! There are only sentinel!"